Figure 2. Web Object and Object Extraction
 The sources for holding object  information could be HTML pages, documents put on the  Web (e.g.  PDF, PS, Word, and other formats.), and deep  contents hidden in Web databases.  Figure 1 illustrates six  data records embedded in a Web page and six attributes from  a records.  There is already extensive research to explore  algorithms for extraction of objects from Web sources (more  discussion about the diversity of sources is to come.)  • Object Identification and Integration – Each extracted  instance of a Web object needs to be mapped to a real world  object and stored into the Web data warehouse.  To do so, we  need techniques to integrate information about the same  object and disambiguate different objects.   • Web object retrieval – After information extraction and  integration, we should provide retrieval mechanism to satisfy  users’ information needs.  Basically, the retrieval should be  conducted at the object level, which means that the extracted  objects should be indexed and ranked against user queries. Figure 1. Six Data Records in a Web Page and Six Attributes  from a Record  WWW 2007 / Track: Data Mining Session: Identifying Structure in Web Pages  82 Figure 2 shows the compounds of a Web object and a flowchart to  extract the object from Web sources. The key messages conveyed  by the  figure are:  1. The contents of a Web object are aggregated from multiple  Web sources. These copies may be inconsistent because of  the diverse Web site qualities and the limited performance of  current information extraction techniques.    2. From each source, two steps are taken to extract the wanted  information.  First, record extraction [21][32][22] is applied to  get data records relevant to the domain from the resource.   Second, attribute extraction [37] is used to label different  portions of each extracted record as different attributes.  Both  of the two steps are unlikely to be accurate.  Record extraction  can extract a totally wrong record, miss some parts of a  record, or add irrelevant information to a record. 

