Fig. 3. Recommendations generation based on extracted user profiles.
   Obviously all the remaining localities do not represent general trends and we have  to take into account their frequency in L. Infrequent localities are probably the result  of random operations.  Thus, only the top frequent localities represent the user  profiles.  In further L is referred as extracted user profiles, which are used in ontology  to compute recommendations.     131 Tarmo Robal and Ahto Kalja  3 Recommendations Based on Online User Profile Discovery   The amount of information available over the Internet is enormous - even the  quantum of information on an average web site is fairly large for users to maintain  easy navigation.  This problem can be revealed by providing recommendations based  on user profiles mined from web logs.  The rationale behind the approach of  recommender systems is that users implicitly use a concept model based on their own  knowledge of the domain or topic searched, even though mostly they do not know  how to represent it [7].  However, having unobtrusively monitored users’ actions and  collected them in the log, it is possible to apply detection algorithms to produce the  concept models of users, i.e., extract user profiles.   By analysing the actions of the current user online and comparing it to the user  profiles discovered from the web log, it is possible to classify the user as an individual  into one of the conceptual user groups and recommend him/her new pages that  correlate with that individual (tactical adaptation), highlight items, so that they could  be easily located or even propose a new topology - strategic adaptation (Fig. 3.).   The items in extracted user profiles do not contain any semantic information about  the content represented on the web-site.  Therefore, the extracted user profiles need to  be mapped to the concepts of web ontology.  For instance extracted user profile “400- 410-4110” withholds the concepts “Students”, “List of Subjects”, and “Subject  Content”.  For that reason, profiles ontology is constructed.  At this point, it was  composed manually, however in the future it is planned to implement an automated  generation of the OWL-file.  In the user profile ontology, several user concepts were  defined in order to give meaning to the mining results and propose recommendations.   For instance, concepts “Researcher” and “Student”. 

