Fig. 1. Data collection and preprocessing using the log system and analyser.
 After analysing different possibilities of usage data  collection and taking into account the aforementioned drawbacks, it was clear that a  different kind of approach was in demand to meet the needs of this study.  As a result,  a special log system was used (Section 2. 5).  2.5 The Log System  The log system [18] was developed in 2003 and based on a preliminary log system  introduced in 2002, which allowed to store only some basic properties of actions users  performed and was only aimed on general usage statistics.  The major improvement  towards the new log system was the ability to capture distinct and recurring user  sessions, which is also the basis of users’ profiles construction.    The web access log contains raw access data, which needs to be cleaned from noise  and filtered before it can be used for user profiles extraction.  Therefore,  crawlers/robots detection rules were added to the log system, based on [19,20,21] and  our own experience, as blocking of search robots incorporates the risk of loosing  potential visitors.  Moreover, most of the robots gather and index the content of the  site for free.  The log system is initialised every time a page request is made (Fig.1).  The approach is totally transparent and thus requires no active participation from the  users.  Both, the log system and analyser system are based on MySQL DBMS [22], the  first on MyISAM storage engine and the latter on InnoDB.  Currently the log is about 189. 5 MB in raw data size, consisting of more than 1 022  984 records (269 782 sessions) captured from the DCE website over the time period  of 5 years.  DCE website log was chosen for data analyses demonstration as it has  been used for the longest period of time. Fig. 1. Data collection and preprocessing using the log system and analyser.  From the data captured by the log system [18], we used the following: (1)  requested page, (2) client identifier (session based ID), (3) operations performed  during a session.   2.6 User Profiles Extraction Based on Locality Model  The raw web access data stored in the log was cleaned from noise and filtered before  it was used for user profiles extraction.  During the process, user navigational paths  were composed of unique identifiers for web pages from session data (Fig. 2). The  analyser system derived from the log 269 782 navigational paths of which a total of  87 953 remained to be processed in further after filtering. 

