Fig.2. Multi-energy resource interactions.
 Hybrid electric  vehicles combine a conventional internal combustion engine  (powered by gasoline, diesel or biofuel) and electric motors.   There are several engine architectures possible and the size of  the internal combustion engines and the electric motor differs.   The fuel efficiency of this vehicle is better than that of  conventional drive systems, and the batteries can be charged  using electric energy from the distribution grid or through on- board electricity generation [9].     Since PHEVs can be controlled in their charging process  quite easily, they form an excellent candidate for a  controllable load.  In theory, their on-board power reserve (and  even generation capacity) could be addressed to inject power  in the grid.     D.  Multi-energy approach  In order to capture the larger-scale consequences of DG  implementation or load activation, the natural gas and  electricity networks and the off-take profiles have to be  considered in parallel as overlaid networks.  This is important  as a change for the good in one system may have adverse  effect in another, for instance: massive use of gas-based CHP  may lift some stress of the electricity transmission system, but  will most certainly lead to congestion of the gas distribution.   An investigation of the parameters driving the profiles  provides information about how they can be influenced  accounting for the impact of local, renewable energy sources  (Fig. 2). Eventually the three resources have to be  distinguished: electricity, natural gas and renewables in a  4 broad sense. Fig.2. Multi-energy resource interactions.    IV.  CONCLUSIONS  The activation of electrical loads with small users, the so- called demand-side participation, helps the further  deployment of sustainable types of distributed generation  such as wind power, PV and CHP through a contribution to  balancing locally as well as globally.  As such it represents a  contribution to the security, adequacy and stability of supply  through the enlarged diversification of primary energy  resources and the creation of necessary ancillary services,  more in particular reserve provision.  Unlike a blunt  introduction of DG, a combined introduction of both types of  DER, DG and complementary demand control may help to  solve the ‘reliability paradox’.     Obviously, further research is required into the  technological implementation of demand control.  A new class  of active metering devices is required.  Their communication  and distributed control algorithms form a challenge. 

