Fig. 1. FIPA Agent Management Reference model.
 In recent years, the Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents’ (FIPA) standards have become the de facto standards used by MAS developers in the computer science community and beyond.  In 2005, FIPA was formally accepted as a stan- dards committee of the IEEE Computer Society.  0885-8950/$25.00 © 2007 IEEE1754 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER SYSTEMS, VOL. 22, NO. 4, NOVEMBER 2007 Fig. 1. FIPA Agent Management Reference model.  FIPA aims to deﬁne speciﬁcations and standards that can be used to support interoperability between agent-based sys- tems developed by the different companies and organizations [4]–[10].  These standards impact on not only methods for interagent communication, but also on the basic architecture a multi-agent system should implement.  A. Multi-Agent System Architectures The FIPA Agent Management Reference model deﬁnes “the normative framework within which FIPA agents exist and op- erate.  It establishes the logical reference model for the creation, registration, location, communication, migration and retirement of agents” [4].  Under the FIPA model (see Fig. 1), an agent re- sides on a particular agent platform which provides some sort of message transport system to allow the agents to communicate.  FIPA offers standards for the use of certain message transport protocols such as HTTP [5] and IIOP [6].  Each agent platform includes two utility agents: the agent management service (AMS) agent, which is compulsory, and the directory facilitator (DF) agent, which is optional.  The AMS acts as white pages, maintaining a directory of agents registered with the MAS platform.  The DF acts as yellow pages, main- taining a directory of agents and the services they can offer other agents.  An agent can use the DF to search for other agents that can provide services to aid it in fulﬁlling its own particular goals.  Many early multi-agent systems had closed architectures where the speciﬁc interactions were effectively “hard wired” at design time. 

