Fig. 5 - Adaptive Fuzzy Logic Based HO Algorithm for 
  If RSSw exceeds the threshold 
(THw)  by  an amount  HYSw,  HO  will  be  done  to   “W, Hybrid Networks 
otherwise   HO   to   the   suggested   macrocell      “M”   is 
investigated. If RSSm exceeds RSSc by   an amount HYSm, 
HO is made to “M“, otherwise no HO occurs. 
-  When the  current  cell  is  a  WLAN  (Fig.  4).   h   t    the 
suggested WLAN  (‘W) is  investigated. If  RSSw  exceeds 
RSSc  by  an amount HYSw,  HO will be  done to  “W”, else 
an attempt is made for HO to the suggested macrocell “M”. 
If  RSSm  exceeds THm  by  an amount HYSm,  HO will  be 
done to “M“, otherwise no   HO occurs. 
This     conventional     algorithm     cannot     meet     many 
requirements of HNs. It  doesn’t  have  minimum number  of 
HOs and short HO delay since it uses a tixed RSS averaging 
window.  For  a fixed  averaging window,  if  h4T  velocity  is 
high,  HO  delay  is  long and  this  delay may  result  in  poor 
signal  quality  and  possibly  disconnection  before  making 
HO,  but  if  MT  velocity  is  low,  HO  delay  is  short  and 
number  of  unnecessary  HOs  is  increased.  So  a  k e d  
averaging  window  only  in  a  certain velocity  has optimum 
performance.  In  addition,  this  algorithm  doesn’t  consider 
M    c      conditions in the  WLAN,  also it doesn’t prevent fast 
users from connecting to WLAN. 
IV. ADAPTIVE FUZZY LOGIC BASED “ D O F F  
ALGORITHM 
In this section the adaptive fuzzy logic based HO algorithm 
for  HNs  is presented. In  [SI methods  for estimating  the 
speed  of  MT,  which  are based  on  doppler  frequency are 
proposed.  In  this  algorithm,  averaging  window  is  adapted 
according to MT speed. When MT speed is high the window 
will be reduced, so the HO delay is decreased and when the 
MT  speed  is low  averaging  window  will  be  increased,  so 
unnecessary HOs are avoided. Handoff initiation mechanism 
and  cell  selection  mechanism are the s a m e   BS    before. 
Handoff   decision   mechanism   is   similar   to   previous 
algorithm (Fig. 3 and Fig. 4),  the only difference is that, here 
HYSm  and  HYSw  values  are  updated  by  a  fuzzy  logic 
system(FL.S).  Inputs of the FLS are MT speed and aaffc in 
the  ‘W (TRw).  The  FLS  is  designed  to  meet  special 
requirements of HNs. When the velocity of the MT  is high 
or the  traffic in the WLAN is heavy, HO to WLAN should 
be   discouraged;   otherwise   HO   to   WLAN   should   be 
encouraged. 