Fig. 4- KO Decision Mechanism (Current  WAN)  
 This mechanism, when the  current cell is a 
WAN,  compares  current  RSS  (RSSc)  with  a  threshold 
value (THw), if RSSc is less than THw, HO will be started. 
When the current cell is a macrocell, this mechanis will start HO  in two cases:  either current RSS  (RSSc) is less than a 
threshold  (THm) or  RSS  from  a  WLAN  is  more  than  a 
threshold (THw). If HO is started, cell selection mechanism 
selects best  available  macrocell  (“M)  and  best  available 
WLAN  (“W)  by  comparing  all  RSS values.  The  HO 
decision mechanism is the main part of the algorithm. If the 
current cell is a manocell,  mechanism in Fig. 3 will be done 
and if the current cell is a WAN, mechanism in Fig. 4 will 
be done as follows: 
- When  the  current  cell  is  a  macrocell  (Fig.  3),  since  the 
priority is to make HO to WAN, first RSS of the suggested 
WAN  (RSSw) is checked. If RSSw exceeds the threshold 
(THw)  by  an amount  HYSw,  HO  will  be  done  to   “W, otherwise   HO   to   the   suggested   macrocell      “M”   is 
investigated. If RSSm exceeds RSSc by   an amount HYSm, 
HO is made to “M“, otherwise no HO occurs. 
-  When the  current  cell  is  a  WLAN  (Fig If  RSSm  exceeds THm  by  an amount HYSm,  HO will  be 
done to “M“, otherwise no   HO occurs. 
This     conventional     algorithm     cannot     meet     many 
requirements of HNs. It  doesn’t  have  minimum number  of 
HOs and short HO delay since it uses a tixed RSS averaging 
window.  For  a fixed  averaging window,  if  h4T  velocity  is 
high,  HO  delay  is  long and  this  delay may  result  in  poor 
signal  quality  and  possibly  disconnection  before  making 
HO,  but  if  MT  velocity  is  low,  HO  delay  is  short  and 
number  of  unnecessary  HOs  is  increased.  So  a  k e d  
averaging  window  only  in  a  certain velocity  has optimum 
performance.  In  addition,  this  algorithm  doesn’t  consider 
M    c      conditions in the  WLAN,  also it doesn’t prevent fast 
users from connecting to WLAN. 
IV. ADAPTIVE FUZZY LOGIC BASED “ D O F F  
ALGORITHM 
In this section the adaptive fuzzy logic based HO algorithm 
for  HNs  is presented.  Fig.  5  depicts block  diagram of the 
algorithm.  In  this  algorithm  MT  speed  and  traffic  in  the 
WAN  are used  as input parameters. We  assumed that MT 
speed  can  be  estimated.