Figure 4  SAPP Governance Structure 
 Use of chemicals is restricted to situations where the growth 
overcomes the biological agents, such as happened following the great drought 
of 1991–1992. 
?       Control of water quality, by monitoring sources of pollution and getting the 
polluters to pay for mitigation measures. Pollution is mostly from urban 
settlements and mining activities along the lake and catchment areas and from 
lake transportation and tourist activities (oil spillage and waste from boats). 
?       Monitoring and managing dam safety, flooding and drought cycles. The ZRA 
maintains a network of hydrological measurement stations and dam safety 
monitoring equipment that provides early warning of potential catastrophic 
events. The concrete that was used to build the dam swells due to alkaline 
aggregate reaction (AAR), and this can distort the structure sufficiently to create 
problems with the opening of floodgates, for example.   
Observations seem to indicate that the AAR is burning out with time, but the 
ZRA has had to undertake modifications to the floodgates to ensure that they do 
not vibrate or jam when they need to be operated.  Another potential threat to 
dam safety is the undermining of the toe of the dam wall when floodgates are 
opened. The plunge pool which has been created by successive gate openings is 
now 81 meters deep, and divers have to inspect the pool and define the 
underwater works needed to stabilize or reshape the pool. The structure of SAPP is shown in Figure 4. The top level is the SADC Directorate of 
Infrastructure and Services, under which energy lies in the regional organization. SADC 
government ministers and officials are responsible for overall policy matters relating to the 
electricity sector. These determine both the institutional structure and market conditions in 
each member state. The two main committees of SAPP itself are the Executive Committee and the Management 
Committee.  
?       Executive Committee: The chief executives of the various power utilities form the 
Executive Committee. The Executive Committee will refer matters such as 
requests for membership by non-SADC countries and major policy issues that 
may arise to the SADC energy ministers. 
?       Management Committee: Officials from the member utilities form the 
Management Committee, the main function of which is to oversee the 
management of SAPP.  
There are four subcommittees which report to the Management Committee: Operating Subcommittee membership consists of representatives from 
those power utilities that are already interconnected and which exchange 
power on a major scale. At the outset, these were the utilities of Botswana, 
South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The number has now increased to 
nine to include the DRC, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia and Swaziland. 
