Figure 1: System organization
 The domain of hand written character verification varies form applications  in reading handwritten addresses in post mail, reading Bank checks, or extracting some data from  diverse forms.  Depending on the chosen language different techniques can be applied for different  types of characters.  The Syntactic method [5,13,14] is a well developed approach to recognize the  characters of different Latin-based languages while suffers from the drawback of recognizing  Bengali hand written characters properly.   The largest difficulty of handwritten Bengali character  recognition is the immense variation of the way handwriting.  Many factors can account for the  diversity in Bengali handwriting styles, among others the regional origin of the writers; their  educational level and their profession In fact different circumstances such as stress; fatigue; and  hurry affect the handwriting of any individual.  In this paper, a new algorithm to identify various  strokes of handwritten characters is proposed.  It is a curve-fitting based algorithm, which helps to  recognize various strokes of different patterns (line, quadratic curve) with high accuracy.  Figure.1  depicts our proposed Modified Syntactic Method (MSM) system, which consists of four  components.  In the first component the strokes are generated.  We differentiate between curve and  line stroke, as we will discuss later.  In the reference characters database components, character  elements are entered at a time in scanned style, pre-processed, and then stored in a reference  character database.  In then curvature analysis to differentiate curves and lines and string generation  component, a numeric string type code is generated which uniquely identifies the character from  the structural representation of a character.  In the last and final component, we get the result  depending on the previous ‘code’ (Reference Component) the machine takes decision to the class NCCPB-2005 © Independent University, Bangladesh    265 belonging of the character.  A dictionary of code is searched to find a matching code corresponding  to the code generated from the input character. 

