Figure 1: Block diagram of a) an OFDM and b) a single carrier transmission system with frequency domain equalization. binary remove zero-forcing (adaptive) cyclic + m+ equalizer + demodulator + data user extension
 For example, a time dispersion of 5 ps at a  symbol rate of 20 MHz (bandwidth: 10 MHz) causes IS1 over  more than 100 symbols.  For sufficient IS1 reduction, time  domain equalizers with 200 to 300 taps would be needed.   Today, equalizers with such complexity cannot be realized for  high data rates.  Therefore, only transmission systems with  frequency domain equalization are considered in the present  paper.   The paper is organized as follows: In section I1 the consid-  ered fixed and adaptive OFDM transmission. systems are de-  scribed.  A description olf a single carrier system with fre-  quency domain equalization follows in the next section.  Fi-  nally, in section IV simulation results are presented.   11. ADAPTIVE OFDM TRANSMISSION  The block diagram of the (considered OFDM transmission sys-  tem is sketched in the upper part of Fig. 1. The bit stream  of a binary source is fed to a modulator whiclh generates com-  plex symbols on its output.  The modulator either uses a  fixed signal alphabet (QAM) or adapts the signal alphabets  of the individual OFDM subcarriers.  Both, signal alphabets  and power distribution can be optimized corresponding to the  channel transfer function.   Propagation measurements of radio channels with fixed an-  tennas show that the transfer function varies very slowly with  time.  Because of this reason it is assumed that the instanta-  neous transfer function of' the radio channel can be estimated  at the receiver and can be communicated back to the trans-  mitter via signalling channels.  Since the radio channel varies  more rapidly in case of mobile terminals, only portability or  small velocities (walking !speed) can be permitted.   The third block transforms the complex symbols with an in-  verse fast Fourier transform (FFT) into time domain. 

