Figure 3. Basic Architecture
 In general the transformation rules to map from the UML model to the OWL-S speciﬁcation are straightforward.  The main classes marked with the Service, ServiceProﬁle, ServiceModel,and ServiceGroundingstereotypes each map into a separate output ﬁle.  These constructs are linked semantically through the stereotyped associations in a diagram (e.g. presents, describedBy,and supports)and are used to generate the respective elements in output documents.  Tagged values are used primarily to model properties in the OWL-S speciﬁcation, especially in the ServiceProﬁle.  Custom data types are used to model XML SchemadatatypesthatareusedtypicallyusedinanOWL-S speciﬁcation.  At present, we allow only one service to be speciﬁed per diagram.  In future work, we will expand the transformation process to allow for multiple services.  The general architecture of the conversion tool is shown in Figure 3. First, a UML Class Diagram is created in Po- seidon [11] with the UML proﬁle for OWL-S. The class diagram is exported in XMI format.  The conversion tool is invoked from the command-line and runs multiple trans- formations on the input ﬁle to produce the corresponding Service,ServiceProﬁle,ServiceModel,and ServiceGround- ing OWL-S documents.  The transformations come in the form of XSLT transformations automatically performed on an XMI ﬁle.  From the standpoint of MDA terminology, the process of creating a UML diagram can be considered equivalentto creating a platform independentmodel(PIM).  The XSLT transformations correspond to “Other Informa- tion” necessary to generate a second level PIM in the form of an OWL-S speciﬁcation.  The act of specifying ground- ings, which is part of the framework we are developing,but outside the scope of the tool described here, correspondsto creating a platform speciﬁc model (PSM) in the sense that themappingprovidesinformationspeciﬁctocreatingaspe- ciﬁc executable implementation of a semantic service. Figure 3. Basic Architecture 3.3. Discussion The speciﬁcation conversion tool we have created auto- matically generates a partial OWL-S speciﬁcation from a UML model. 

