Figure 1 : Generic Intelligent Enterprise Architecture
EKM (Enterprise Knowledge
Management)  is  a  broad  area  whose  ultimate  objective  is  to  inject
knowledge into business processes, enable reuse of human expertise and
to create system artifacts with rudimentary intelligence.
Intelligent Enterprise is therefore:
1.   agile   -- It can launch a production order very rapidly after, for instance,
closing a Web-based purchase.
2   adaptive, self-regulating, self-optimizing   -- It can adjust key business
parameters (revenue, profit, cost) to the short-term, changing business
climate.
3 with   fuzzy borders, mesh-like structure  -- It can restructure and scale
the organization to fit dynamic needs. As in outsourcing or complete
outsourcing, for example
4   self-aware, aware of the markets and able to learn   from them and adapt
to them -- It can deal with internal inefficiencies, bottlenecks and
latencies and coordinate them with perceived market changes, for
example, knowing the level of goods being produced, correlating thisinformation with the market niche real-time situation, and jumping
quickly into a price reduction campaign on the Web
5 -   able to morph    into new and better forms -- this is a long-term process
in which we may not even guess what will the final form look like. It will
include not only adjustments of the business and operational parameters,
but also major structural changes; deciding for mega-merge or drastic
resizing while changing the industry branch, for example.In  a  very  rough  analogy  shown  in  the  Figure  1,  we  may  recognize
enterprise sensors, effectors, a nervous system and brain corresponding to
those  of  living  organisms,  each  with  particular  functionality.  CRM
provides sensing functionality; EAI may represent nerves interconnecting
ERP effectors with CRM and EKM being dispersed across enterprise, but
centrally  coordinated  from  the  brain  (company  top  management).  The
best current guess is that the future IE will be a hierarchically organized,
decentralized and distributed system with a high level of self-regulating,
local  autonomy.  Some  authors  are  reporting  about  implementation  of
such  systems  combining  component-object  technology  with  intelligent
agents  technology  to  create  complex  adaptive  systems  [1],  using  Web-
services  as  the  glue  for  heterogeneous  enterprise  applications  [2]  or  a
wide  variety  of  enterprise  middleware  technologies  for  integration
purposes [3].
Evolution towards Intelligent Enterprise
One  may  wonder  why  contemporary  enterprises  are  not  already
exhibiting these features and what's preventing them from doing so? It is
very likely that the uncoordinated development of the above mentioned
domains by several fiercely competing vendors -- each lacking a holistic
view  or  suitable  integration  framework  (as  is  IE  architecture,  for
example)  --  are  possible  causes  for  US  corporations  having  spent
approximately  700  billion  dollars  (est.  between  1995  and  2000)  on
enterprise  software  that  is  not  used  very  effectively  today  [Financial
Times, Dec. 5, 2001]. 