Fig.2 Segment of computer ontology
  The seller agent is in charge of receiving processed  request from different buyer agents.  Through  communication protocol defined in the product  ontology, the seller agent knows user needs, and  retrieves wanted products matching up with customer  wishes.   In this application, the seller agent is responsible for  communication with buyer agent and retrieves product  from database.  In these operations, the product  ontology carries two tasks: communication protocol  and enhancing retrieving precision.     4.3 Product ontology    In order to maintain a conversation, agents must  have a common language.  The product ontology is  established as a kind of communication language,  which contains the main concepts owning to the  domain we are dealing with.   These concepts are the ones the buyer agent utilizes  to indicate the customer’s preferences to the seller  agent, and the ones the seller agent utilize to search  exact product.   A product ontology related to the computer product  is shown in Fig.2. This ontology shows how a  computer is composed of by several elements: monitor,  keyboard, mouse, motherboard, CPU, etc. (Fig.2)    Fig.2 Segment of computer ontology  It also generates an OWL file with designed  ontology’s description.  Fig.3 shows the segment of  computer ontology in OWL Lite format with a  membership implemented by Protégé 2000, which is  compatible with JADE platform.     Fig.3. Segment of computer ontology in OWL with  membership for customer  Fuzzy information (e.g., relationship between  product demand and supply, delivery time, etc.) is an  important part of the information that needs to be  communicated between partners in e-commerce.   Unfortunately, traditional ontology formalisms have no  consistent support for uncertainty, thus providing no  means of ensuring semantic consistency with respect to  issues of uncertainty or data quality.     4.4 Algorithm for formation of fuzzy customer  demands’ ontology    Fuzzy classification decision tree learning algorithm   [14]  (Fig.4) is a top-down multilevel ontology (concept  hierarchy) guided search in a hypothesis space of  decision trees.  Recall that the decision tree algorithm  recursively selects at each step, an attribute from a set  of candidate attributes based on an information gain  ratio criterion and membership between concepts.  A  set of candidate attributes to choose from for growing  the tree rooted at that node. 

