Fig.1 Conceptual framework of agent-based knowledge management in e-commerce
  Fuzzy ontology augments standard ontology with  fuzzy information about the domain.  A Fuzzy ontology  (PO)  [12]  is an explicit, formal knowledge  representation that expresses knowledge about a  domain of application.  This includes:  ▪Types of entities that exist in the domain;  ▪Properties of those entities;   ▪Relationships among entities;  ▪Processes and events that happen with those  entities;  ▪Statistical regularities that characterize the domain;  Where POs are used for the purpose of  comprehensively describing knowledge about a  domain and the uncertainty associated with that  knowledge in a principled, structured and sharable  way, ideally in a format that can be read and processed  by a computer.  They also expand the possibilities of  standard ontology by providing a means of  representing the statistical regularities and the  uncertain evidence about entities, which uses fuzzy  relations between components of the ontology in order  to preserve a common structure.  The concept is  presented in the e-commerce domain.   In this paper, we use ontology to define a common  vocabulary for agents to communicate with one  another, and to explicitly formalize the domain  knowledge in e-commerce, especially knowledge about  the product and sale process, by which the product  category is classified with fuzzy relationship.     4. Framework of fuzzy knowledge for  agent–based knowledge management in e- commerce    4. 1 The framework of the system    The system architecture, which is shown in Fig.1,  has five principal interconnected components.  The  most important component is JADE, which is FIPA  (Foundation for Intelligent Physical Agents) compliant  agents platform.  These agents implement in this  application get registered in the Directory Facilitator  (DF), which provides a yellow pages service to the  other agents, and the Agent Management System  (AMS), which provides platform-typical management  functions (such as life cycle monitoring, checking of  all the entities’ correct behavior and white pages).   The second component is the database: Product DB  and User DB. Product DB can be shared by all seller  agents, which store products characteristics, such as  ProductID, category, functions, manufacturer, quantity  etc.  This database contents are ontology-dependent.   User DB’s information are extracted from user  explicitly entering data by filling forms or answering  questionnaires and tracking user browsing behavior  and legacy data (e.g. transactions and browsing logs,  purchase history).     177Fig.1 Conceptual framework of agent-based  knowledge management in e-commerce  The third component is two types of agent: buyer  agent and seller agent. 

