Fig.12. Qualitative summary ﬁgure of major factors affecting nitric oxide emissions from a diesel engine. A bold underline of a parameter indicates the parameter is higher withbiodiesel.
 Tat et al. [56], for example, observe an advance in injection timing as injector pulsewidth increases.  Typically, diesel injection timing is retarded as injector pulsewidth increases (i.e., engine load increases), to subdue increases in noise with substantially high amounts of premixed burning [75].  Bittle et al. [68], however, observe no changes to the calibrated, or commanded, start of injection as pulsewidth increases for biodiesel as shown in Fig. 4. There are other system response issues, outside of injection timing, that may also inﬂuence NO emissions.  These system responses include exhaust gas recirculation, injection pressure, intake manifold pressure (i.e., boost pressure), and any other parameter that is dynamically linked among fuel, in-cylinder processes,andout-of-cylindercomponents. Suchsystemresponses make it difﬁcult to quantify speciﬁc reasons that may cause differences in NO emissions between biodiesel- and diesel-fuelled enginesandlikelycontributetothevariationsinNOemissionsthat arereportedintheliterature. Thecontinuingpresenceofadvanced technology on diesel engines, however, renders it possible to a priori detect and mitigate any changes to emissions [120], thus potentiallyenabling the use of biodiesel fuel.  6.8. Summary While this article is not able to identify a speciﬁc cause for changes in NO emissions between biodiesel and petroleum diesel fuel,itisabletocollectallthemajorfactorsthatseemtocontribute to such changes and qualitatively provide them in a summary fashion.  Fig. 12 is an attempt at such a qualitative summary.  This qualitative summary ﬁgure is similar to one provided by Khan [121], as that ﬁgure related to smoke in diesel engine exhaust.  In Fig. 12, the various pathways of NO formation are shown.  As the ﬁgurereadsfromlefttoright,highertolowerorderparametersare connected in various pathways.  In other words, a lower order parameter (listed on the right of the ﬁgure) is suggested to affect higher order parameters in the connected pathways.  A bold line connecting two parameters suggests that an increase (or advance) in the lower order parameter increases (or advances) the higher orderparameter. Forexample,anon-boldedlineconnectsradiation heat transfer topost-ﬂame gas temperature; that is, an increase in radiation heat transfer decreases post-ﬂame gas temperature. 

