Fig. 3. Optimization process.defined in any modeling formalism of the Unified Modeling
 Increasing the availability while keeping the response time lower than 5 seconds and adhering to structural constraints is a setting with one quality attribute to be optimized (availability) and two constraints (for performance and structural).  Finally, the dimensionality category reflects if the approach addresses a single-objective optimization (SOO) or multi-objective optimization (MOO) problem.  The SOO optimizes a single quality attribute only.  The MOO optimizes multiple quality attributes at once so that the quality of every architecture model is a vector of values.  As quality attributes often conflict, usually there is no single optimal result but a set of solutions nondominated by the others from the point of view of the optimized qualities—i.e., solutions that are Pareto-optimal [70].  Since in MOO a decision has to be taken on the final architecture design selected from the set of resulting candidates, one can also use the multi-objective trans- formed to single-objective optimization (MTS) approaches, which encode the selection criteria following MOO into a single mathematical function (e.g., a weighted sum), which is then optimized as a single objective.  For a structured view on all the values of the discussed subcategories, see Table 1.  3.2 The Solution Category The solution category classifies the approaches according to how they achieve the optimization goal and thus describes the main step of the optimization process, which is depicted in Fig. 3. First, the subcategory architecture representation is the process input that describes the architecture to optimize.  Second, the subcategory degrees of freedom describes what changes of the architecture are considered as variables in the optimization.  Third, the subcategory quality evaluation describes the used quality evaluation procedures which make up the objective function(s) of the optimization process.  Furthermore, this category contains the techniques used to solve the formulated optimization problem: Subcategories are the overall optimization strategy and constraint handling.  The architecture representation category classifies the approaches based on the information used to describe the software architecture.  Any architecture optimization ap- proach takes some representation of the system’s architec- ture as an input (cf., Fig. 3). This representation may be an architecture model [120] documenting the architecture by defining components and connectors.  To predict more complex quality attributes, a quality evaluation model such as a Layered Queueing Network or a Markov chain may be derived from an architecture model or may be used directly as an input. 

