Fig. 1. Local model internal model control.
 In practice, the tuning of conventional PI or PID controllers can be very
time-consuming whereas the IMC design procedure is very simple and reliable. In this paper,
the design effort of the IMC and conventional controller design methods will be discussed and
control results will be compared by application to nonlinear control of an industrial-scale heat
exchanger. Copyright  c 2002 IFAC
Keywords: Nonlinear Control, Internal Model Control (IINTRODUCTION
In  process  control,  internal  model  control  (IMC)
(Morari and Za?riou, 1989) has gained high popular-
ity due to the good disturbance rejection capabilities
and robustness properties of the IMC structure. Fur-
thermore, the controller design is simple and straight-
forward such that the controller can easily be tuned
by the process engineer. The IMC controller design
is theoretically well explored for linear processes. In
practice, however, almost every process displays non-
linear behavior especially if it is driven in a wide oper-
ating range. Hence, the need emerges to extend the lin-
ear design procedure to nonlinear systems (Economou
et al., 1986).
Neural networks as well as fuzzy systems have been
widely employed for the representation of nonlinear
systems and the idea of internal model control can
be combined with these types of models (Hunt et al.,
1992). In this paper, a local linear neuro-fuzzy model will be used (Murray-Smith, 1994; Nelles, 2000; Tak-
agi and Sugeno, 1985), see Fig. 1. Here, the output of
the model is calculated as an interpolation of locally
valid linear models. Local model architectures have
several advantages over conventional black-box ap-
proaches. On the one hand, their transparent architec-
ture allows the combination of prior knowledge about
the process with measured identi?cation data. On the
other hand, classical linear control design methods can
be utilized for nonlinear controller design (Babu?ska and Verbruggen, 1996; Hunt and Johansen, 1997). For
the IMC approach, this local linearity can be exploited
directly and a nonlinear gain-scheduled controller can
be obtained.
It can be shown that for simple linear models, the IMC
loop can be transferred to classical feedback structures
resulting in e.g. 