Fig. 1. Proposed general method of design.
 As an example to demonstrate the pro- posed technique, a ﬁlter with user-deﬁned speciﬁcations over two independent passbands has been implemented and successfully tested in microstrip technology.  Index Terms—Arbitrary frequency response, digital ﬁlter de- sign, microwave ﬁlter.  I. INTRODUCTION U P TO now, the systematic design of microwave ﬁlters has been mainly limited to the use of the well-known classical functions, i.e., Butterworth, et al.[1], [2].  However, more sophis- ticated and general functions like Zolotarev have been also ex- plored [3] and speciﬁcally, for the case of multipassband ﬁlters, some limited analytical techniques have been proposed [4], al- though usually direct optimization methods have been applied for these cases, with the involved difﬁculties [5], [6].  The aim of this letter is to demonstrate that microwave ﬁlters with especially demanding magnitude responses can be synthe- sized by using the well established and readily available digital ﬁlter design techniques [7].  The proposed methodology rests on the translation of the target speciﬁcations from the analog to the digital domain, where the microwave designer can take immediate advantage of these sophisticated and continuously developing digital techniques, without requiring a deep under- standing of the complex mathematics involved.  The details of the novel ﬁlter design technique will be ex- plained in Section II and, afterward, an example of a two-pass- band microstrip ﬁlter with arbitrary speciﬁcations will be pre- sented showing the excellent performance of the technique.  II. MICROW A VE FILTER DESIGN The proposed design technique comprises several steps sketched in Fig. 1 and detailed below.  Manuscript received December 1, 2006; revised May 3, 2007.  This work was supported by the Spanish CICYT under Project TEC2005-06923-C03-01 and the Government of Navarre Program.  The authors are with the Electrical and Electronic Engineering De- partment, Public University of Navarre, Pamplona 31006, Spain (e-mail: israel.arnedo@unavarra.es).  Digital Object Identiﬁer 10. 1109/LMWC.2007.903434 Fig. 1. Proposed general method of design.  A. From Analog Speciﬁcations to Digital Speciﬁcations The desired microwave ﬁlter is characterized by a set of analog speciﬁcations. 

