Fig.4 Proposed code scheme
Two aspe:cts have to be considered: 
-   During the decoding process prediction errors will 
propagate from lower 1.0       higher scales. 
Doing  no  prediction  at  all  may  be  better  than  a  bad 
prediction, as a bad prediction may increase the error. 
- Figure 3 compares the results of a fractal coding where the 
prediction  depth was varied  (only the lower frequency part 
of  the  wavelet  subtree  v v a s   predicted,  the  high  frequency 
part  was  set  to  zero).  :For  fractal  coding  in  the  spatial 
domain  (corresponding  tlo  the Haar-wavelet)  the prediction 
of  all  range  block  wavelet  coefficients  is  useful.  Using 
smooth  wavelets  however,  the  coding  performance  will 
decrease if too many coefficients are predicted. 
1 
3. PROPOSEID CODING SCHEME 
The  previous  results  can  be  resumed  as follows:  Fractal 
coding  should   be   done  in   the   wavelet  domain   using 
biorthogonal  or QMF wavelets.  Domain blocks  should  be 
made up of  an integer number of  range blocks to allow an unconstrained    luminance    transformation.    These    two 
aspects  lead  to  a coding  gain  of  1 dB compared  to  spatial 
domain  fractal  coding.  The  best  prediction  of  wavelet 
coefficients  can  be  achieved  if  only  the  lower  frequency 
coefficients   of  a  wavelet   subtree  are  predicted.The  image  to  be  encoded  is  decomposed  with  a  discrete 
wavelet    transform    (DWT).   The   DC-coefficients    are 
encoded using  a DPCM followed  by  an  entropy  coder.  In 
the beginning  all  wavelet  subtrees  are  set to  zero.  During 
the  encoding  these  trees  are  extended  using  an  entropy 
constrained   selection   criterion   for   every   node   of   the 
wavelet decomposition  tree. Each node of the tree has three 
possible  states:  its  four  child  nodes  may  be  set  to  zero 
(which   is  the   initial   state),   they  may   be  set  to  their 
quantized   values,  or  they  may  be  described  through   a 
fractal  prediction  using  four  scaled  coefficients  from  the 
next  coarser  frequency  level  (see  fig. 5). For the  encoding 
of  the  quantized  wavelet  coefficients  for  each  level  an 
adaptive arithmetic coder is used. Fig. 5: Each  node  of  a  wavelet  subtree  may  be  followed  by  a 
zerotree  (left),     four  quantized  coefficients  (middle)  or  four 
fractally  predicted  coefficients (nght) which  are  obtamed  from 
four scaled coefficients of the next coarser frequency scale. 
The  fractal  codes  consist  of  two  parts:  The  quantized 
scaling factor  which  again is entropy  coded  and  the  index 
of  the  codebook,  which  describes  the  position  in  the  next 
coarser  frequency  level.  For  each  set of  four  coefficients 
the  codebook is  centered at  the  corresponding  position  of 
the  node  in the next  coarser frequency  level,  which  is  the 
position with maximum correlation.   