Figure 2: FDD symmetric system overview.
 This would require equal resources in both  the uplink and the downlink.  A natural way to accom-  plish such symmetric resource distribution is through Fre-  quency Division Duplex.  In FDD, the uplink and down-  link channels are independent, acting on separate frequen-  cies, so they can transmit simultaneously without affect-  ing each other.  In this case, we have two different chan-  nels.  Their characteristics need to be estimated and pre-  dicted to make the adaptive modulation work efficiently.   The complexity and frequency of the predictor param-  eter updating is a topic for further research, but it would  probably require considerable computations.  For this rea-  son, the adaptor is located at the base station.   For the case of FDD, see Figure 2, the predictor has also  been moved to the base station, since there is a potential  advantage in providing the base station with the down-  link SNIR information: If the SNIR information is known  to the base station, it can control the different connections  more efficiently.  The price to be paid is an increase in traf-  fic on the control uplink channel caused by the transmis-;  sion of estimated downlink SNIRs from the mobile chan:  ne1 estimator to the base station channel predictor.   Thus the base station decides on both the uplink andi  downlink modulation formats, and signals the result to the.  mobile over the control downlink channel.   3 ADAPTIVE MODULATION  In traditional communications systems, the radio trans  mission method is designed to cope with channel varii-  tions in a worst-case manner.  For wireless systems this  implies the use of a simple modulation scheme, and a  complex error-correcting code.  When the coding fails to  compensate for temporary bad conditions, higher lay  the protocol will ensure that the information is c  and completely transmitted, by requiring a retrans  of the erroneous data.  We wish to avoid this by adapting  our demands on the channel as it varies. 

