Figure 1: TDD downlink dominant system overview. is intended to demonstrate the achievable performance gains when using an adaptive approach to the problem of digital transmission over time-varying channels.
 The predictions are per-  formed regularly, so that the mobile is able to make a de-  cision on which modulation level to prefer for each SNIR  value.  This decision only involves a table lookup, which is  matching the SNIR to the required BER. The decisions of  the mobile terminal are collected in a buffer before trans-  mitting its contents to the base station via the control up-  link channel.  The final decision on the choice of the down-  lipk modulation is made by the base station, which signals  its decision to the mobile, which in turn prepares for re-  ception accordingly.   Since we use a TDD system, the downlink channel can  be estimated by analysis of the uplink transmission, but  since we assume an asymmetric traffic, this would require  ffequent transmission of pilot signals in the uplink.  We  therefore propose that that the estimator and predictor of  the downlink quality should be placed in the mobile in this  type of system.  Although the traffic in the uplink does  not require much transmission time, its quality needs to  be guaranteed.  For this reason the uplink modulation is  also adapted to the channel conditions.  The total system  is schematically described in Figure 1.  i  "RIWX  IIIANSUrn~ "NlT  Figure 2: FDD symmetric system overview.   FDD system for symmetric trafic 2. 2  A different scenario would be that of a high, symmetnc,  traffic load.  This would require equal resources in both  the uplink and the downlink.  A natural way to accom-  plish such symmetric resource distribution is through Fre-  quency Division Duplex.  In FDD, the uplink and down-  link channels are independent, acting on separate frequen-  cies, so they can transmit simultaneously without affect-  ing each other.  In this case, we have two different chan-  nels. 

