Figure 2. The model n Web-HIPRE 
114  and  0.401  of 
local   weight,   followed   by   economic   and   cultural 
aspects of 0.104 and 0.080 respectively. It is important 
to  note  that  priority  of  security  criterion  here  might 
reflects  the  specific  environment  and  it  can  be  vary 
depends on different environments. 
Then,  Table  1.B  to  1.E  illustrate  local  weight  of 
comparative  alternatives  according  to  criteria  which 
describes  specific  local   weight   value  of  all  three 
alternatives (confidentiality, integrity, and availability). 
In terms of consistency, it is important to explain that 
although   both   table   1.A   and   1.B   show   a   little 
inconsistency  measures  (0.127  and  0.121),  it  is  still 
acceptable as long as it below 0.200 (as the maximum 
value  for  consistency  measure  or  CM)  [7]. Therefore, 
among all matrixes, the most appropriate result showed 
by  table  1.E  with  CM  value  of  0.000  which  means 
completely consistent.  
Then, we perform the last step of AHP analysis by 
calculating  all  local  weights  and  aggregate  them  into 
global  weight  value  or  composite  overall  priorities  to 
obtain the overall priority.  
The following figure shows the graph of composite 
overall priorities in Web-HIPRE. The  result  clearly  indicates  that  technology  and 
management   are   considered   more   important   than 
economic  and  cultural  considerations.  This  finding 
reflects  imbalanced  approach  of  information  security 
policy development in government sector. Whereas, in 
order to be effectively applied, cultural insights [29] as 
well  as  economic  perspectives  [11]  should  be  given 
more  portions  in  shaping  the  information  security 
policy development at government level.   
This is inline with our previous findings in [12], that 
information  security  is  one  of  e-government  critical  
issues in Indonesia. Then,  the  last  step  of  the  analysis  processes  is 
aggregating  the  total  priority  of  both  criteria  and 
alternatives.Table  2  shows  the  final  rank  or  priority  of  to 
achieve  information  security  policy  as  the  goal.  In 
terms   of   security   alternatives,   it   is   found   that 
availability of 0.432 is preferred as the top requirement 
followed by confidentiality which accounted for 0.387. 
Integrity   seems   do   not   become   priority   within 
government agencies that only accounted for 0.181.  
In  addition,  this  final  result  also  shows  that  there 
have    been    more    concern    on    management    and 
technology   aspects   of   information   security   which 
accounted for 0.415 and 0.402 respectively compare to 
economy  and  cultural  concerns  which  only  0.104  and 
0.079 respectively.  
Based   on   these   findings,   it   seems   government 
agencies still with the focus on availability of data and 
information  systems  in  its  environment. This  also 
reflects  the  top  priority  of  information  technology 
efforts by government agencies in Indonesia. 