Fig.3. Block diagram of the controlboard443
 The general electronic and mechanical specifications of the Soft-i-Robots controller board are explained as follows: · On board CPU  8-bit high performance, RISC processor (PIC16F877) · On board Storage 8 x 14 words of FLASH, 368 x 8 bytes of RAM, 256 x 8 bytes of EEPROM · Interface modules · Wireless colour camera transmitting both audio and video signals 434Mhz and 315 MHz wireless RF module · Three Stepper motors and drive circuits · Ultrasonic sensor module · RS232 interface module · Wireless Operation Range  200 meters approximately · Power Supply  12 V-DC · Configuration: 3-wheel, front wheel drive, rear wheel steer · Dimensions: 200 mm X 315 mm in area, 185 mm tall, 3. 5 kg weight · Wheel size: 5" diameter · Drive Motor: 12 V-DC stepper motor with current 1. 6 A Hardware environment This section provides a brief overview about the system and general description of the microcontroller, sensors, motors and power supply.  The client monitors and controls the soft-i-robot in a remote workspace through internet.  The peer to peer link is established between client and server PC(Al-Mouhamed et al.  2005). The command given by the client is received by the server, which communicates with the robot through a wireless link.  The Radio Frequency receiver receives the control signals and the signals are fed to the PIC16F877 microcontroller.  Block diagram description The block diagram of the control board is shown in Fig.3. The control board is mounted on the body of the robot.  It consists of a microcontroller (µc) which acts as the brain of the robot.  The microcontroller is interfaced with the sensors such as temperature, humidity and flame.  The ultrasonic transmitter and receiver module measures the distance of the obstacle from the robot and transmits to the server.  The robots movements is achieved with two stepper motors, which include forward, reverse, left and right turns.  The third stepper motor is used for camera rotation.  The power to drive the robot and its sensory subsystems is achieved with the aid of a 12 V battery pack. 

