Fig.7. Flow chart for distance measurement446
 To avoid increased computation and long training times, it is necessary to resize the face images.  The images are therefore resized to 30×30 pixels immediately after they have passed through the hit and miss kernels, before entering the classification stage. Fig.4. Block diagram of the client  Fig.5. Functional Diagram of the Face recognition system445 Indian J. Innovations Dev., Vol. 1, No. 6(June 2012) ISSN 2277  5390 Research article  Soft-I-Robot neural networks Santhosh S Ó Indian Society for Education and Environment (iSee) http://iseeadyar.org/ijid.htm Obstacle detection and path planning module For mobile robots, functions, which recognize environments, are required to find unpredictable obstacles and paths through which the robot can pass.  As for range sensors, which can measure a distance to objects, ultrasonic sensor (Fig.6) is more commonly used with mobile robots because it is small, inexpensive and easy to calculate distances.  Ultrasonic waves are discharged from a transmitter given comparatively long burst waves in order to vibrate its piezoelectric vibrator fully.  A range value is calculated by using the amplified echo and a threshold level.  The distance between the soft-i-robot and the obstacle in the workspace is measured using the ultrasonic sensor according to the flow chart shown in Fig.7. This distance measured from the ultrasonic sensor is the actual distance.  In order to optimize the path and distance of the robot Evolutionary algorithm such as the genetic algorithm is used.  Variable-length chromosomes have been employed.  Their elements represent nodes included in a path between a designated pair of source and destination nodes.  The crossover exchanges partial chromosomes and the mutation introduces new partial chromosomes.  Lack of positional dependency in respect of crossing sites helps maintain diversity of the population.  In addition, a simple repair function has been proposed to deal with all the infeasible chromosomes. 

