Fig. 11. LDL circuit.further enhancement of LDL is described in Section VI-D, andexpected performance is discussed in Section VI-E. Finally, in
 Note that the stretch window is also expanded to (up to ) (13) During the design process, it must be veriﬁed that the matched delay always exceeds , over all possible process, voltage, and temperature (PVT) variations (namely, all corners and all in-die process variations).  In addition, this type of solution is not Fig. 9. Stoppable clock generation with matched clock-tree delays.  Fig. 10. Matched delay port control-wave diagram. viable for designs with high clock rates, which often imply long clock tree delays.  In such designs, clock stretch may happen on each handshake, since in this case it is very likely that .  In addition, this approach presents similar drawbacks as the “constrained delay clock tree.” VI. LDL SYNCHRONIZATION In this section we introduce the LDL approach, which allows for GALS inter-modular communication and synchronization without the need for an arbitrated clock.  It is shown that the LDL approach replaces the constraints on the clock delay (which were discussed in Section V) by simpler and more localized timing constraints, which are easier to achieve and verify. Fig. 11. LDL circuit. further enhancement of LDL is described in Section VI-D, and expected performance is discussed in Section VI-E. Finally, in Section VI-F–VI-H, we provide three implementation exam- ples of input and output ports. Section VII presents simulations of these implementations.  A. LDL Principles In an LDL input port synchronizer, the asynchronous con- troller (Fig. 11) controls both the input latch and Y1, the clock input to the ﬁrst sampling register.  Signal , the local clock of the module, is uninterrupted.  In addition, the port issues a valid indication for each newly received data word and prevents WRITE after READ (WAR) hazards.  Various modes of the LDL operation are demonstrated in Fig. 12. In LDL, the clock of the Locally Synchronous Island is never stopped.  The only measure available is to delay when a conﬂict is imminent. is unaffected, and only the high- phase is shortened.  A port request is accepted only during the low-phase of , latching the incoming data and delaying when needed.  The conﬂicts between and are resolved by a MUTEX inside the control. 

