Figure 7 Implementation of Time Synchronization Based on ADSP-BF518
 This implementation is expected 
to be more economical than that of Ref.[12]. When    a    time    synchronization    frame    reaches    the 
Preemptive Queue with a sending time t, it firstly be queued, 
and  then  the  preemptive  priority  mechanism  will  interrupt 
the sending of other frames when the actual time is t.  After 
the  time  synchronization  frame  is  sent,  the  frame  which  is 
interrupted will continue to be transmitted.
IV.    EXPERIMENT
To  verify  the  performance  of  the  proposed  scheme, we 
developed  a  customized  switch  and  test  nodes  with  time 
client based on the ADSP-BF518 processor from ADI. The
processor  has  a  built-in  Ethernet  media-access  controller 
(EMAC)  module,  and  it  can  detect  and  provide  hardware 
time  stamps  for  all  pre-defined  event  messages,  including 
both incoming and outgoing packets by its TSYNC module 
which keeps monitoring the hardware interface between the 
MAC   controller   and   the   Ethernet   physical   interface 
transceiver,  that  is,  the  media  independent  interface  (MII). 
The   detection   of   event   messages   is   designed   to   be 
programmable. The  TSYNC  module  of  the  processor  detects  incoming 
and   outgoing   time   synchronization   messages   and   use 
hardware  to  time-stamp  event  messages  and  uses  the  MAC 
controller driver to implement the preemptive priority queue. 
The  Ethernet  PHY  is  National  Semiconductor  DP83848, 
chosen  because  of  its  low  jitter  delay  characteristics.  For 
simplicity,  the  processor’s  system  clock  (80  MHz)  was 
chosen to be the TSYNC module clock source.
The measurements were made as illustrated in Figure 8. 
The  two  clocks  were  connected  directly  via  class  5  cable.
Each  clock  has  a  1-PPS  test  point.  An  oscilloscope(TDC-
GP2) was  used to  measure the relative offsets between the Because the switch and the node with time client operate 
at 80MHz, it offers a 12.5ns sampling granularity. It means 
incoming  and  outgoing  frame  at  the  master  and  slave 
introduce a 12.5ns uncertainty or jitter. Hence a minimum of 
25ns  jitter  and  offset  deviation  can  be  expected  from  the 
setup.  Table  I  summarized  the  measured  performances  at 
different sync frame transmit intervals.The results show that the slave synchronizes in the range 
of 1.5ns to the master in average; however the jitter numbers 
are still showing variations in the range of 200ns when using 
a sync frame interval of 1 second. From the result, it shows 
that  the  synchronization  interval  has an important  influence 
on  the  precision.  When  we  choose  the  synchronization 
interval  below   3   second,   it   can  achieve   the   class  T5 
requirements used in the CNC systems.V.    