Fig. 3. Flowchart for the reactive power control planning.
 Variable deﬁnition follows. • : new size of the switched capacitor at location . • : new binary location variable for switched capacitor at location . • : updated sensitivity of the voltage stability margin with respect to the size of the switched capacitor at loca- tion under contingency . • :newsizeoftheswitchedcapacitoratlocation under contingency . • :updatedvoltagestabilitymarginundercontingency . 1034 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ONPOWER SYSTEMS, VOL. 24, NO. 2, MAY 2009 Fig. 3. Flowchart for the reactive power control planning. • :updatedsensitivityofthevoltagemagnitudeatbus withrespecttothesizeoftheswitchedcapacitoratlocation under contingency . • : updated voltage magnitude at bus under contin- gency .  The above MIP will be re-executed until all concerned con- tingencieshavesatisfactoryvoltagestabilitymarginandvoltage magnitude and there is no signiﬁcant movement of the deci- sion variables.  The sensitivities, voltage stability margin and voltagemagnitudeareupdatedateachMIPiterationtoaccount for system nonlinearities.  There may be situations where this reﬁnement process may not converge.  If this is the case, the al- gorithmwillterminateafteraprespeciﬁednumberofiterations.  Among the executed iterations, the minimum cost solution sat- isfyingtherequirementsofvoltagestabilitymarginandvoltage magnitude might be useful if such a solution exists.  Theoverallprocedureforthereactivepowercontrolplanning isshowninFig.3whichintegratestheabove-mentionedsteps.  IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS A. Results of a Small System The proposed method has been applied to the modiﬁed New England 39-bus system shown in Fig. 4. The original real and reactivepowerloadsin[39]aremultiplied1. 38timeswithasso- ciated increases in real and reactive power capacities of gener- ating units proportional to their original value in order to stress the system.  Inthesimulations,thefollowingconditionsareimplemented unless stated otherwise.  Fig. 4. Modiﬁed New England 39-bus test system.  TABLE I PARAMETER VALUES ADOPTED IN OPTIMIZATION PROBLEM • Loads are modeled as constant power. • Reactive power output limits of generators are modeled. • In computing voltage stability margin, the power factor of theloadremainsconstantwhentheloadincreases,andload and generation increase are proportional to their base case value. • The system MVA base is 100. • Requiredvoltagestabilitymarginisassumedtobe10%of system load. • and . • Switched shunt capacitors are adopted to improve the voltage stability margin and voltage proﬁle. • Theparametervaluesadoptedintheoptimizationproblem aregiveninTableI.Thecompensationequipmentcostsare from [32].  Considering all N-1 contingencies (excluding radial trans- mission line outages), using the algorithm presented in Section III-B, three generator contingencies (G31, G32, and G35) cause the post-contingency voltage stability margin less than 10% as shown in Table II. The outages of the largest two generators G38 and G39 create unsolvable cases which was addressed in [30]. 

