Figure 2: SALMon architecture
    Metric Description Current response  time It measures the current response time in  milliseconds to access to a Web Service.  Minimum response  time It measures which is the lowest response  time in milliseconds to access to a Web  Service.  Maximum response  time It measures which is the maximum  response time in milliseconds to access  to a Web Service.  Average response  time It measures which is the average  response time in milliseconds to access  to a Web Service.  Response time Table 1: Response time metrics    3.  SALMon Architecture    The architecture of our tool is a SOA; this decision  makes SALMon very easy to install on a running SOA  system.  SOA is a component-based architecture; this  means that we can change some of the components by  others that have the interfaces defined for the SALMon  architecture.   In the Figure 2 the proposed architecture is shown.   We may observe that it is composed of three types of  services: Monitor, Decision Maker and Analyzer.   The Monitor service is composed of Measure  Instruments; these components will bring the measures  to the Monitor that has the responsibility to maintain  this information updated.  The update process is an  iterative call to each Measure Instrument in different  intervals of time, saving the results in a database.  The  intervals of time are part of the information provided  with each metric. Figure 2: SALMon architecture    Measure Instruments are components instantiated in  each monitored service to get all the basic metrics of  the selected quality attributes (basic metrics are the  ones that allow to calculate the rest of derived metrics,  for example Current Response Time is the basic metric  for Response Time attribute; others metrics such as the  Minimum, Maximum and Average Response Time may  be computed from it). While the interface for the  Measure Instruments is independent of the technology,  their implementation is technology-dependant because  they are built to support one kind of services (e.g., Web  services, HTTP services, DBMS services).  They can be  seen as plugins to support specific service technology. 

