Figure 1: Quality model for services
  In this paper we will show a concrete tool called  SALMon, which uses the flexibility provided by SOA  to make SOA systems capable to adapt themselves in  order to maintain the requirements stated in SLA  specifications.  SALMon uses a monitoring technique to  provide runtime QoS information that is needed to  detect SLA violations.   The rest of this paper is divided into two main  sections: first we provide a framework for metrics  definition based on previous works and the second part  is dedicated to the details of SALMon architecture.   Finally there is a section for the conclusions.     2. QoS and monitorable quality attributes    The first two questions that we faced were: “What  do we want to monitor?” and “What can we monitor?”.   To answer the first question we have built a quality  model [6] for software services based in previous work  done in our group [7], and quality-related standards  especially in the domain of web services.  This model  was part of our participation in a ITEA European  project, SODA (Services Oriented Devices & Delivery  Architectures, www.soda-itea.org), in which we  participated with the responsibility of identifying and  classifying the characteristics needed for defining the  quality of Web services.  The model (Figure 1) is based  on the ISO/IEC 9126 standard [8].  However, since this  standard focuses just on the technical aspects of  software, we have used some previous work to enlarge  this model including non-technical aspects [9].   We have opted by an ISO/IEC 9126-based standard  due to: 1) its generic nature: the standard fixes some  high-level quality concepts, and therefore quality  models can be tailored to specific domains; 2) it allows  creating hierarchies of quality features, which are  essential for building structured quality models; 3) the  standard is widespread.   Seventh International Conference on Composition-Based Software Systems 0-7695-3091-5/08 $25. 00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10. 1109/ICCBSS.2008.13 224  Figure 1: Quality model for services   ISO/IEC 9126-1 specifically addresses quality  model definition and its use as a framework for  software evaluation.  A 9126-1-based quality model is  defined by means of general software characteristics,  which are further refined into subcharacteristics, which  in turn are decomposed into attributes, yielding to a  multilevel hierarchy. 

