Figure 1. SAPP Structure
The  time-based  differentiation  in  pricing  arises 
from  the  physical  constraint  in  that  the  produced 
electrical energy must be instantly consumed.  The 
storage   of   electrical   energy   is   not   practical.   
Energy banking and pumped storage schemes are 
the  exceptions  for  electrical  energy  storage  for  a 
very   small   percentage   of   the   total   electricity 
generated.  
2.      Case   Study   for   the   Southern   African 
Power Pool 
 
The  Southern  African  Power  Pool  (SAPP)  is  a 
regional  body  that  was  formed  in  1995  through  a 
Southern     African     Development     Community 
(SADC)  treaty  to  optimise  the  use  of  available 
energy  resources  in  the  region  and  support  one 
another  during  emergencies.    The  Co-ordination 
Centre  for  the  power  pool  is  located  in  Harare, Zimbabwe.The  pool  comprises  of  twelve  SADC 
member  countries  represented  by  their respective 
national power utilities.SAPP  is  managed  by  the  decision-making  that 
occurs  in  the  hierarchical  structured  committees 
illustrated  in  Figure-1.    Reporting  to  the  Energy 
Ministers of SADC is the Executive Committee that 
is   composed   of   the   Chief   Executives   of   the 
participating  utilities.    Reporting  to  the  Executive 
Committee  is  the  Management  Committee,  which 
is   composed   of   senior   managers   from   the 
transmission system operations and energy trading 
divisions of each utility. The     Management     Committee     collates     the 
proceedings  of  the  sub-committees  of  Operating, 
Planning   and   Environmental,   summarizes   the 
proposals  and  recommendations  and  presents  bi-
annually the report to the Executive Committee.  In 
the      SAPP      proceedings      of      1999,      the 
recommendation    from     the     Operating     Sub-
Committee  to  introduce  a  competitive  market  for 
short-term   energy   trading   was   submitted   and 
approved.    This  paper  will  discuss  in  depth  the 
design and rules of the short-term energy market. 
The  results  of  more  than  two  years  of  trading 
activity    will    be    analysed    for    recommended 
conclusions.  
3.      Design of the Short Term Energy Market 
 
The goal of standard market design is to establish 
an  efficient  and  robustly  competitive  wholesale 
electricity marketplace for the benefit of consumers 
[1].   