Comprehensive model
Figure  1  presents  the  comprehensive  model  of  KM
adoption and practice, which has been developed basedon the conceptual framework  as described earlier  with
the factors and variables identified in the field study (as
presented in Table 3). Accordingly, this research proposes
that the adoption and practice of KM can be observed as
per the model that involves the following:Discussions and implications
Theoretical implications
This study confirmed the significance of the relationship
posited by the TRA model, in which a positive perception
of the benefits translated into a positive attitude, which
in turn affected their behaviours in conducting KM activi-
ties. The results also supported that perceive usefulness,complexity and subjective norm, which were the percep-
tive  factors  adapted  from  the  TRA,  TAM  and  ID,  had
significant  influences  on  KM  practice  via  employees’
attitudes  toward  KM  adoption.  To  extend  the  existing
theories, this study identified environments and indus-
trial  factors,  individual  characteristics,  IT  support,  KM
promotion,  organizational  characteristics  and  cultural
factors, as the external factors that affected the perceptive
factors  in  the  context  of  KM  adoption  and  practice.
Further, we suggest that KM practice would improve the
organizational  performance  in  operational  efficiency,customer  service,  ability  to  adapt  to  changes,  etc.The
comprehensive  model  of  KM  adoption  and  practice  as
presented in Figure 1 is particularly unique, since it is
developed  based  on  both  the  literature  and  the  data
collected  from  10  interviewees  in  the  life  insurance
business. This comprehensive model can be taken as a
research model for proposition development and further
empirical  investigation.  Further  research  is  required  to
develop  appropriate  research  hypotheses  to  carry  on
with the above research. The researchers plan to examine
this model further using structural equation modelling (Barclay et al., 1995) to test a number of hypotheses. Parts
of  this  model  can  also  be  extracted  and  examined  in
detail.  For  example,  how  the  external  factors  affect
complexity  can  be  studied  to  identify  the  potential
initiatives  and  obstacles  for  people  to  adopt  and  apply
KM  in  an  organization.  This  model  also  indicates  the
processes  involved  in  KM,  as  well  as  the  perceived
performance  that  the  KM  practice  is  expected  to  bring
for the organization. 