Figure 2. Agent negotiation protocol statement vicissitude
 In view of agreement  presence overtime event  and agent unsolicited message transmission, so increase  overtime ˄ timeout ˅ status and inform ˄ inform ˅ state row  word that.  Communication protocol engine of the  communication process state as follows of the agent:  State inner Ī =Started| Requested | Accepted | Refused |  Promised | Informed | Advised | CAd-vised | Timeout | Stopped See Fig.1: Agent automatic negotiation protocol can be  divided into information transmission layer, buffer channel  layer and Agent negotiation protocol layer from bottom to top,  of which buffer channel layer C is one of the needed layers  between Agents to realize asynchronous communication.  If it  will realize point-to-point synchronous communication  between Agents, it can do communication directly through  channel C. As to the description of Agent automatic  negotiation, it mostly focus on Agent negotiation protocol  layer, while for the other layers, it only describes their services  and running environment in brief.  In essence, the function of  Agent negotiation protocol layer is the description of process.  (1) The service provided by each protocol layer  See Fig.1:  Figure 1. Agent automatic negotiation protocol model  a.  Information transmission layer: being in position to  transmit information data between Agents in sequential way  and correctly;  b.  Buffering channel C0 and C1 layer: providing Agent  automatic negotiation layer with the services described;  c. Figure 2. Agent negotiation protocol statement vicissitude  figure  Fig.2 receive agreement on state vicissitude chart ˈ from  the view of agent negotiation starter Among them: arrowhead  direction are the flow direction of Agent information; The  Recv means a certain message in roger in right connecting;  send stand for exactness forward to some information ˗ Following behind the Recv/ Send is a message type, both state  vicissitude picture with state refused and accepted implication  negotiatory amphi-with the result that ˗ negotiation the rough  and smooth ˈ along with it show that negotiatory terminal  status.  The Agent A describe with Agent B whole negotiation  procedural not formal as follows: Agent A first of all dispatch  negotiation beg of Agent B received solicit aback, toward  request message proceed analyses, could as per three strain  scene dispose to ˖ the first thing, in the event of Agent B  receivability the solicit of Agent A, those Agent B  to Agent A  dispatch take send , else dispatch thumb advise ˈ down  through upon, the service request block mode ˈ of the such  negotiation scene as conventional C / S. the second thing,  Provide some Agent B can provide serve of instruct, but  because of the restrict of the resource of system can't very  much the serve, so the Agent B can put forward to Agent A the  serve promises, the Agent A handles Agent B the commitment  of serve can proceed very much: Reject or accept. the third  thing, The Agent B thinks after analyzing the Agent A request  Agent A some items modification within request empress, can  satisfy the Agent A request still, like this Agent B after  proceeding Agent A some items within request to modification,  conduct and actions the suggestion sends out to the Agent A.  (3) Agent consults the working environment that the  protocol needs  a. Agent consult agreement lower floor information  transmission layer of layer can is it is it spread mistake travel  the mistake to the upper strata agreement to get to measure  Agent A Agent B  Agent negotiation protocol layer ˄ NL ˅ C0 C1  information transmission layer ˄ TCP/UDP,HTTP,IIOP ˅ c0 c1  Recv:adv Send: cadv Send:acpt  promise d Requested Refused Accepted  Advised  Refused Counter- Advised Send:ref  Recv:prom Send:acpt Send: req Recv:acpt Recv:acpt Recv:ref Send:ref Recv:adv Recv:ref 978-1-4244-2108-4/08/$25. 00  © 2008 IEEE 3automatically.  Namely the information transmission layer has  fault-tolerant ability.  b.  The array of every part of one layer of news transmitted  of the information transmission should be correct.   Because the protocol in information transmission layer is  standard, this text assumed information transmission layer it  transmits is reliable.  This is the basic demand of Agent  Negotiation Protocol in working.   C. The verification of agent automatic negotiation protocol  Utilizing process algebra to carry out formalization of  communication protocol not only can state logic structure and  time sequence nature of the protocol narrowly, but also is  favorable to verify the protocol. 

