Figure 1.   Agent automatic negotiation protocol model 
The  first  phase  is  based  on 
multi-Agent  automatic  negotiation  whose  negotiation  object 
includes task starting time, task ending time and the relation of 
the  tasks;  The  second  phase  is  the  negotiation  of  Agent’s 
communicating  conditions  whose  negotiation  object  include 
corresponding  security  policy  and  network  service  quality^
QOS?.
According   to   the   top   analysis   talks   about   with   the 
correlative  language  behavior  academic  theories,  we  say  the 
Agent automatic negotiation correspondnce in the procedure to 
state  row  word  certain  for:  request,  promise,  refuse,  advise, 
counter advise. In view of agreement  presence overtime event 
and   agent   unsolicited   message   transmission,   so   increase 
overtime^timeout?status  and  inform  ^inform?state  row 
word    that.     Communication     protocol     engine     of     the 
communication process state as follows of the agent: 
Stateinner I =Started|  Requested  |  Accepted  |  Refused  | 
Promised | Informed | Advised | CAd-vised | Timeout | Stopped
See  Fig.1:  Agent  automatic  negotiation  protocol  can  be 
divided  into  information  transmission  layer,  buffer  channel 
layer and Agent negotiation protocol layer from bottom to top, 
of  which  buffer  channel  layer  C  is  one  of  the  needed  layers 
between  Agents  to  realize  asynchronous  communication.  If  it 
will    realize    point-to-point    synchronous    communication 
between  Agents,  it  can  do  communication  directly  through 
channel   C.   As   to   the   description   of   Agent   automatic 
negotiation,  it  mostly  focus  on  Agent  negotiation  protocol 
layer, while for the other layers, it only describes their services 
and  running  environment  in  brief.  In  essence,  the  function  of 
Agent negotiation protocol layer is the description of process.(1) The service provided by each protocol layer 
See Fig.1: a.  Information  transmission  layer:  being  in  position  to 
transmit  information  data  between  Agents  in  sequential  way 
and correctly; Buffering  channel  C0  and  C1  layer:  providing  Agent 
automatic negotiation layer with the services described; 
c.  Agent  automatic  negotiation  protocol  layer:  supplying 
Agent with credibility, efficient negotiation control and policy. 
(2)   Description   of   Agent   negotiation   protocol   layer 
functions: Fig.2  receive  agreement  on  state  vicissitude  chart'  from 
the view of agent negotiation starter Among them: arrowhead 
direction  are  the  flow  direction  of  Agent  information;  The 
Recv  means  a  certain  message  in  roger  in  right  connecting; 
send  stand  for  exactness  forward  to  some  information ?
Following behind the Recv/ Send is a message type, both state 
vicissitude picture with state refused and accepted implication 
negotiatory amphi-with the result that ?negotiation the rough 
and  smooth 'along  with  it  show  that  negotiatory  terminal 
status. 
The  Agent  A  describe  with  Agent  B  whole  negotiation 
procedural not formal as follows: Agent A first of all dispatch 
negotiation  beg  of  Agent  B  received  solicit  aback,  toward 
request  message  proceed  analyses,  could  as  per  three  strain 
scene  dispose  to?the  first  thing,  in  the  event  of  Agent  B 
receivability the solicit of Agent A, those Agent B  to Agent A 
dispatch  take  send  ,  else  dispatch  thumb  advise '   down 
through  upon,  the  service  request  block  mode'  of  the  such 
negotiation  scene  as  conventional  C  /  S.  the  second  thing, 
Provide  some  Agent  B  can  provide  serve  of  instruct,  but 
because  of  the  restrict  of  the  resource  of  system  can't  very 
much the serve, so the Agent B can put forward to Agent A the 
serve promises, the Agent A handles Agent B the commitment 
of  serve  can  proceed  very  much:  Reject  or  accept.  the  third 
thing, The Agent B thinks after analyzing the Agent A request 
Agent A some items modification within request empress, can 
satisfy  the  Agent  A  request  still,  like  this  Agent  B  after 
proceeding Agent A some items within request to modification, 
conduct and actions the suggestion sends out to the Agent A. 
(3)   Agent   consults  the   working   environment  that  the 
protocol needs 
a.   Agent   consult   agreement   lower   floor   information 
transmission layer of layer can is it is it spread mistake travel 
the  mistake  to  the  upper  strata  agreement  to  get  to  measure automatically.  Namely  the  information  transmission  layer  has 
fault-tolerant ability. 
b. The array of every part of one layer of news transmitted 
of the information transmission should be correct. 