Figure 3.  Application Integrator scenario
  All business scenarios considered in the next section  exhibit the same value network illustrated in Figure 1. In this  figure, the value streams between roles and from and  towards the consumer are depicted.  This way, dark arrows  indicate service flows, while white arrows represent revenue  flows.  Only direct revenue flows are indicated though. Figure 1.  Generic Value Chain  The use cases considered in this paper privilege the  access to information stored in devices and sensors  (consumer electronics, utility meters, etc.), followed by the  publication of this information over a mobile network and  potentially combining it with mobile network operator’s  contextual information and services (customer information,  location, messaging, etc). Therefore was assumed that the  consumer holds a CE device (mobile phone, television,  computer, set-top box, etc) and a mobile telecommunications  subscription (data or voice subscription).  In addition, was  considered that there are APIs made available by CE  manufacturers and MNOs to facilitate, respectively, access to  and integration of functionalities of devices and mobile  networks.  It was not considered relevant for this analysis to  explore the actors that assume the roles of Network  Equipment Development and Network Equipment  Integration as those roles are related to the functioning of the  network and are just mentioned here to make the value chain  clear.    IV. BUSINESS MODEL SCENARIOS  Based on the actor that holds the direct customer  relationship for application provisioning, the scenarios  presented in this section are aggregated by the streams  shown in Figure 1.   A. Application Stream Scenarios  1) Description  In the application stream two scenarios can be  considered:  1.  The application developer establishes a platform for  software development and provision and manages a  397 396direct relationship with the customer or sells  applications to MNOs (Figure 2).  2. The application integrator establishes a platform for  hosting and provision of applications, but relies on  application developers to develop and publish  applications on the platform (Figure 3).  In the first scenario, the application developer develops,  hosts and provides applications, i.e. establishes the entire  platform for application development and provision.  The  application developer collects revenues from several  operators or from only one, based on an exclusivity contract.   Alternatively or complementarily, the application developer  provides applications directly to the consumer.  While the  application developer can have two sources of revenue from  distinct stream stakeholders, there is also potential for the  MNO to collect revenues from consumers.     Figure 2.  Application Developer scenario  The second scenario considers an application integrator  that setups an application development platform in order to  host and provide applications.  Through this platform a set of  APIs to interact with network devices, CE devices and so on  is provided, in order to leverage creativity and innovation of  a developer’s community or application developers such as  ISVs or startups.  In this context, the application integrator  collects revenues from application developers using the  platform and from consumers or MNOs to whom these  applications are sold. 

