Figure 10.  Device Manufacturer holds application provisiong without application design scenario
 This role can be feasible if the  MNO establishes an alliance/agreement with certain device  manufacturers in order to facilitate the deliverable of M2M  devices to customers.  This would increase implementation  speeds, reduce the cost and complexity of delivering M2M  devices to customers and enable economies of scale for  manufacturers.  In this case a revenue share deal between the  two actors could be set up and would facilitate the  deployment of technical use cases UC 2 and UC 4.   Scenario 8 seems the least interesting scenario, since both  MNOs and manufacturers rely on developers for the success  of the platform implying a considerable risk for the former  stakeholders.  In addition, revenues would be split among  three actors, potentially leading to a revenue split not that  interesting for developers. Figure 9.  Device Manufacturer holds application provision to MNOs  scenario  400 399C. CE Device Stream Scenarios  1) Description  In the CE device stream scenarios the device  manufacturer holds the customer relationship for application  provisioning and device marketing. The device manufacturer  thus sells CE devices directly to the customer and likely also  provides applications directly to the end-user through, for  example, an application portal.  These scenarios are similar to  real-life cases of mobile handset manufacturers that hold  platforms to sell applications to device owners:  9.  The device manufacturer allows third-parties to  participate in the application design and shares  revenues with them (Figure 10).  10.  In addition to the device stream, the device  manufacturer assumes the entire application stream  (Figure 11).      Figure 10.  Device Manufacturer holds application provisiong without  application design scenario  2) Discussion  The technical cases UC 2 and UC 4 could be deployed  taking these two scenarios into account, since access to  hardware-related APIs would be obviously facilitated.   However, given that the MNO is not involved in the  application provision, the possibilities to integrate with  mobile phone functionalities decrease.   In these scenarios, the device manufacturer sells  applications directly to consumers, similarly to existing  mobile manufacturers’ platforms, such as Nokia Ovi.   Similarly to previous scenarios, consumers could be  charged on a one-time fee or pay per usage basis.  Previous  considerations regarding opening the platform to application  developers also apply to scenario 9.   Although these two scenarios seem to have little  implementation potential, they are comparable to the  platforms established by mobile phone manufacturers, which  are currently more successful than similar platforms  established by mobile operators. 

