Figure 1.  Generic Value Chain
  In the context of this paper, the following roles were  considered:  • Application Design: consists of the first phases of  the software life cycle and is usually taken up by a  software house or individuals (professional and non- professional developers).  It consists in gathering the  user and technical requirements and delivering a  software package that complies with those  requirements.   396 395• Application Hosting: consists of hosting the software  code and the data required to run the application.   This can occur in-house or outsourced.  • Application Provision: comprises the delivery and  selling of software to specific market segments and  additional technical support.  • Application Usage: is the act of using application  services by end-users.  • Network Equipment Development: comprises the  design and development of network equipment,  implying the ownership of the intellectual capital  necessary for the manufacturing of this equipment.  • Network Equipment Integration: consists of the  provisioning of integrated network solutions to  network operators.  • Mobile Access Provision: is the act of providing  access to a given network to customers.  In the  context of this report, this role was simplified and  therefore also includes backbone provision, last-mile  provision and broadband access provision and  applies to internet, fixed line or mobile services’  subscriptions.  • Mobile Access Consumption: is the act of using  network access purchased from network access  providers.  • CE Device Development: comprises the design and  development of Consumer Electronics (CE) devices,  implying the ownership of the intellectual capital  necessary for the manufacturing of these devices.  • CE Device Marketing: consists of bringing to market  consumer electronics devices to be used by  consumers to interact with applications.    • CE Device Usage: is the act of purchasing and using  a consuming electronics device obtained from a CE  device marketer.   The main actors considered relevant for this discussion  are:  • Device manufacturer: the entity that develops and  builds CE devices or other devices considered  relevant in the M2M ecosystem, e.g. sensors, etc.  • Mobile Network Operator (MNO): the entity that  provides mobile network connectivity to a device.  • Application Developer: designs and develops an  application that explores the capabilities of a device  or integrates information from different sources.   This entity can be represented by an individual or an  organisation.  • Application Integrator: the entity that, on one side,  provides to developers an ecosystem for hosting and  running applications, and on the other side,  integrates and provides applications in the user- environment.  • Consumer: the consumer holds a CE device and  enabled with a mobile access subscription makes use  of an M2M application.   All business scenarios considered in the next section  exhibit the same value network illustrated in Figure 1. In this  figure, the value streams between roles and from and  towards the consumer are depicted.  This way, dark arrows  indicate service flows, while white arrows represent revenue  flows.  Only direct revenue flows are indicated though. Figure 1.  Generic Value Chain  The use cases considered in this paper privilege the  access to information stored in devices and sensors  (consumer electronics, utility meters, etc.), followed by the  publication of this information over a mobile network and  potentially combining it with mobile network operator’s  contextual information and services (customer information,  location, messaging, etc). Therefore was assumed that the  consumer holds a CE device (mobile phone, television,  computer, set-top box, etc) and a mobile telecommunications  subscription (data or voice subscription).  In addition, was  considered that there are APIs made available by CE  manufacturers and MNOs to facilitate, respectively, access to  and integration of functionalities of devices and mobile  networks.  It was not considered relevant for this analysis to  explore the actors that assume the roles of Network  Equipment Development and Network Equipment  Integration as those roles are related to the functioning of the  network and are just mentioned here to make the value chain  clear.    IV. BUSINESS MODEL SCENARIOS  Based on the actor that holds the direct customer  relationship for application provisioning, the scenarios  presented in this section are aggregated by the streams  shown in Figure 1.   A. Application Stream Scenarios  1) Description  In the application stream two scenarios can be  considered:  1. 

