Figure 7.  Device Manufacturer holds application design scenario
  B. Mobile Stream Scenarios  1) Description  In the mobile stream several scenarios reflecting more or  less control of the value chain by the MNO can be  considered.  Still, the MNO guarantees the direct relationship  with the customer for application provisioning:  398 3973.  The MNO setups an application development  platform in order to host and provide applications,  holding at the same time a marketplace to distribute  applications submitted by application developers to  its customer base.  The MNO relies on developers’  innovation for the success of the platform (Figure 4).  4. Apart from holding a platform for hosting and  provision of applications, the MNO also chooses to  have a technical department to develop applications  internally.  In this case, third-party applications  developers are not involved and do not contribute to  the innovation loop (Figure 5)    Figure 4.  MNO holds application provision scenario    Figure 5.  MNO holds application design scenario    Figure 6.  MNO holds CE device marketing scenario  5.  In a slightly changed configuration of the previous  scenario, the MNO not only takes an active role on  the application stream, but also takes up the active  role of marketing devices to the end-user and takes  control of additional functionalities delivered to the  customer.  This scenario can be compared to the  bundle offers (mobile phone plus medium/long  contract), which are mobile operators’ common  practice across Europe (Figure 6).  6. In this scenario, although the MNO still holds the  customer relationship for application provisioning,  the device manufacturer assumes a more active role  in the application stream.  The device manufacturer  bundles the devices with software that is made  available to the consumer through a platform  established by the MNO. In addition, the MNO  maintains its role of marketing devices to the  customer (Figure 7).  7. The device manufacturer holds application  provisioning, but as part of a deal with the MNO, the  device manufacturer provides the application  provisioning platform to the MNO. In a non- transparent way, the costumer is redirected to the  manufacturer’s platform whenever he tries to buy  new software or use interfaces of the application.   The MNO still sells the CE device to the customer  and charges him for each application bought or used  (Figure 8).  8. Similarly to the previous scenario, the device  manufacturer holds application provisioning, but  opens the platform to the contribution of application  developers. Figure 7.  Device Manufacturer holds application design scenario     Figure 8.  Device Manufacturer holds entire application stream scenario  2) Discussion  The mobile stream scenarios envisioned deliver the  advantage of involving the MNO and hence leverage the  integration of mobile services and mobile network  functionalities with consumer electronic devices.  In all these scenarios, the MNO charges directly the  customer either through the monthly bill or through one-time  micropayments per application bought or used.  Scenarios 3 and 6 reflect a two-sided business model and  enable the MNO to collect revenues from selling  applications to consumers and from application developers  or manufacturers using the platform to host and market  applications.  Platform adoption by developers and  manufacturers would mainly depend on an open platform  and attractive revenue sharing rates.  In these scenarios  developers and manufacturers collect revenues from one or  several MNOs.  However, compared to developers,  manufacturers could actually have more bargaining power,  since they control the underlying access layer to CE devices,  resulting in both actors trying to exert a certain control over  each other. 

