Figure 9.   Device Manufacturer holds application provision to MNOs 
scenario  In  this  scenario,  although  the  MNO  still  holds  the 
customer  relationship  for  application  provisioning, 
the device manufacturer assumes a more active role 
in  the  application  stream.  The  device  manufacturer 
bundles  the  devices  with  software  that  is  made 
available   to   the   consumer   through   a   platform 
established  by  the  MNO.  In  addition,  the  MNO 
maintains   its   role   of   marketing   devices   to   the 
customer (Figure 7). 
7.    The     device     manufacturer     holds     application 
provisioning, but as part of a deal with the MNO, the 
Figure 9.   Device Manufacturer holds application provision to MNOs 
scenario 
device    manufacturer    provides    the    application 
provisioning   platform   to   the   MNO.   In   a   non-
transparent  way,  the  costumer  is  redirected  to  the 
manufacturer’s  platform  whenever  he  tries  to  buy 
new  software  or  use  interfaces  of  the  application. 
The  MNO  still  sells the  CE  device  to  the  customer 
and charges him for each application bought or used 
(Figure 8). 
8.    Similarly   to   the   previous   scenario,   the   device 
manufacturer   holds  application  provisioning,  but 
opens the platform to the contribution of application 
developers.   In   this   case,   the   revenue   of   an 
application    is    split    between    the    MNO,    the 
manufacturer  and  the  application  developer  (Figure 
9).Discussion 
The  mobile  stream  scenarios  envisioned  deliver  the 
advantage  of  involving  the  MNO  and  hence  leverage  the 
integration    of    mobile    services    and    mobile    network 
functionalities with consumer electronic devices. 
In  all  these  scenarios,  the  MNO  charges  directly  the 
customer either through the monthly bill or through one-time 
micropayments per application bought or used. 
Scenarios 3 and 6 reflect a two-sided business model and 
enable    the    MNO    to    collect    revenues    from    selling 
applications  to  consumers  and  from  application  developers 
or  manufacturers  using  the  platform  to  host  and  market 
applications.    Platform    adoption    by    developers    and manufacturers  would  mainly  depend  on  an  open  platform 
and  attractive  revenue  sharing  rates.  In  these  scenarios 
developers  and  manufacturers  collect  revenues  from  one  or 
several    MNOs.    However,    compared    to    developers, 
manufacturers  could  actually  have  more  bargaining  power, 
since they control the underlying access layer to CE devices, 
resulting in both actors trying to exert a certain control over 
each other. 
In scenarios 4, 5 and 7, the MNO and the manufacturer, 
respectively,   control   the   entire   application   development 
stream. 