Figure 1 - Lifecycle overview of the AIRS algorithm
The review is intended to provide insight into the functional workings of the 
technique without getting too deep into implementation specific issues. Also provided in 
this section is a review of the configurable user parameters of the system and their impact 
on the functioning of the system. For a description of the user configurable parameters 
with an empirical view of their effect on the system, see [2]. 
 
It should be noted that this overview is restricted to the AIRS2 or version two of the 
AIRS algorithm [10]. It has been explained to the author (private communication) that the 
AIRS1 or version one of the technique [1,11] is now deprecated in favour of the second 
revision of the technique. Please see section 4. for a review of the AIRS1 and AIRS2 
algorithms and their specific differences. 3.1  The Algorithm 
The function of the AIRS algorithm is to prepare a pool of recognition or memory cells 
(data exemplars) which are representative of the training data the model is exposed to, 
and is suitable for classifying unseen data.The lifecycle of the AIRS system is as 
follows:3.1.1  Initialisation 
This step of the algorithm consists of preparing the data for use in the training process, 
and preparing system variables. The training data is normalised so that the range of each 
numeric attribute is in the range [0,1]. An affinity measure is required for use through the 
training process. The typical measure used is the inverted Euclidean distance. The 
important point here though is that the maximum distance measured between any two 
recognition cells or antigen and recognition cell (both simply data vectors) must also be 
in the range [0,1]. This can be achieved by adding the following step to the data 
normalisation process: 
 
n
Value
normalised
Value
normalised
1
·
=
 
Equation 1 - Calculation for ensuring that the distance between any two vectors is between 0 and 1 
 
where the normalised value is data attribute in the range of [0,1], and n is the number of 
attributes used in the distance evaluation. 