Figure 3: e block diagram for extracting the proposed new frontend based on robust MVDR spectrum of filtered  autocorrelation sequence,
namely PMSR and R-PMSR features. e lter applied to unbiased autocorrelation sequence is the RAS lter according to (12). e subband
weighting for R-PMSR features is calculated according to (14) and (6).
Calculate its (N? 1)-length two-sided (biased) auto-
correlation sequence which has a maximum at zeroth
lag in the center,
(iii) Pad one zero at the end to make an -length desired
window. In other words, the RAS of clean speech can be calculated
by applying the high-pass lter in (12) to the autocorrelation
of noisy speech in the frame range specied by (2 + 1).
According to (11), as long as the additive noise is stationary,
the RAS of noisy speech will be equal to RAS of clean speech,
and thus the e
ect of noise is removed. However, we oenencounter non-stationary additive noise in ASR systems.Therefore, this technique cannot remove the distortions completely and only suppresses DC or slowly varying noise (or stationary noise). In order to reduce the noise residuals which
remainaer applying RAS lter, we propose nding the
MVDR spectrum of this ltered autocorrelation sequence.
Moreover, to further suppress the noise e
ects and thus and more robust features even in low SNRs, we propose using a robust MVDR approach similar to [11] which was explained in  Section 2.  erefore,  we  extract  the  proposed perceptual MVDR spectrum of relative autocorrelation sequence
(PMSR) features from the subband MVDR power spectrum
of filtered short-time autocorrelation sequence. e block
diagram for extracting the proposed PMSR features is given
in Figure 3(a). Also Figure 3(b) illustrates the procedure we
proposed for extracting Robust-PMSR (R-PMSR) features. To
calculate R-PMSR coe
cients, we rst pass the short-time
autocorrelation sequence through a RAS lter in (12). en
we nd the proposed features from the robust perceptual
MVDR spectrum of this ltered autocorrelation sequence.
e robust perceptual MVDR spectrum is estimated similar
to the approach explained in Section 2. However, according
to our experiments given in Section 4, the subband SNRs of
the signal passed through a RAS lter are increased compared
to the case when no lter is applied to the autocorrelation
sequence. is happens due to suppression of noise e
ects
by processing the signal with RAS technique. is causes
the subband SNRs to be estimated more reliably.