Figure 1: e block diagram for extracting RPMCC features [11]. e subband weighting is applied according to (6) and (7). 
For this reason, we proposed a robust distortionless constraint in [11] by modifying
this constraint such that the response of the lter at the
frequency of interest has a gain which is determined by the
signal to noise ratio at that frequency, instead of a unity
gain. is process will be the same as weighting the power
spectrum value at the frequency of interest based on the ratio
of the energy of the signal to the energy of noise at that
frequency which makes the MVDR spectrum robust against
noise. erefore, the robust MVDR spectrum for all frequen-
cies will be computed by [11] are the clean signal and noise at the frequency of interest, 
, respectively.
Hence, we assign larger weights to the components of the
input signal at the frequencies least a
ected by noise, whereas
the others get smaller weights. In [11], employing the exper-
imental ndings of psychoacoustics [20, 21], we proposed
using the following weighting function with values between
zero and one:
where SNR	  is the signal to noise ratio computed from the
ratio of the energy of noisy signal to noise in the th mel fre-
quency subband and 
	 is the gain that controls the steepnessof the weighting function. is weighting function was sug-
gested because using the raw subband signal to noise ratios
as the weighting factors did not lead to su
cient recognition
accuracies in low SNRs according to experimental results.e following optimum function, which is made up of the
dierence between two sigmoidal functions, was proposed
for in [11] based on recognition experiments
diagram for extracting the proposed robust perceptual MVDR-based cepstral coe
cients (RPMCC) accord-
ing to the explained procedure is given in Figure 1. RPMCC
features are extracted from the warped power spectrum by
incorporating the PLP structure as in [11]. is gives better
recognition results because exploiting the perceptual infor-
mation always improves the speech recognition systems. e
equal loudness curve and power law of hearing blocks are
according to [3]. We calculate the warped power spectrum by
applying the conventional triangular Mel-based filtered bank to
the FFT-based periodogram. en the warped MVDR power
spectrum is computed from the Mel-warped spectrumaer applying weighting to subbands. en, the cepstral features
are calculated by applying IFFT to the Mel-scale MVDR
log-spectrum. e Mel-warped spectrum is also known as
subband spectrum in the area of speech recognition.