1   Introduction
Large-scale  deployments  of  WSNs  have  already
emerged in environmental and habitant monitoring [8,
7], structural monitoring [3] and urban monitoring [6].
A decisive variable for prolonging the longevity of a
WSN is to minimize the utilization of the wireless com-
munication medium. It is well established that commu-
nicating over the radio in a WSN is the most energy
demanding factor among all other functions, such as
storage and processing [10, 4, 5, 11, 9].   The energy
consumption for transmitting 1 bit of data using the
MICA mote [1] is approximately equivalent to process-
ing 1000 CPU instructions [5].In order to process continuous queries in Wireless
Sensor Networks (WSNs), predominant data acquisi-
tion frameworks typically organize sensors in a Query
Routing Tree (denoted as T ) that provides each sensor
with a path over which query results can be transmit-
ted to the querying node. We found that current meth-
ods deployed in predominant data acquisition systems
sub-optimality construct T which leads to an enormous
waste of energy. In particular, since T is constructed in
an ad-hoc manner, there is no guarantee that a given
query workload will be distributed equally among all
sensors.  That leads to data collisions which represent
a major source of energy waste.To facilitate our description, consider the example
depicted on Figure 1 (left), which illustrates the initial
ad-hoc query routing tree T created on top of a 10-node
sensor network with the First-Heard-From (FHF) ap-
proach 1.  Assume that the weight on each edge of T
represents the workload (e.g., the number of transmit-
ted tuples) that incurs when a child node communi-
cates its partial results to its designated parent node.
In the example,  we observe that node s2  is in?icted
with a high workload (i.e., 5 child nodes) while other
nodes at the same level (i.e., s3 and s4), only have zero
and one child nodes, respectively. Notice that both s8
and s10 are within communication range from s3 (i.e.,
the dotted circle), thus these nodes could have chosen
the latter one as their parent. Unfortunately, the FHF
approach is not able to take these semantics into ac-
count as it conducts the child-to-parent assignment in
a network-agnostic manner.
Unbalanced topologies pose some important energy
challenges which are summarized as follows:
Decreased Lifetime and Coverage: Since the ma-
jority of the energy capacity is spent on transmitting and receiving data, the available energy of sensors with
a high workload will be depleted more rapidly than
the others. 