Figure 3. System Architecture
 Ranking Accuracy: With billions of potential answers to a  query, an optimal ranking mechanism is critical for locating  relevant object information.    4. Scalability: Since our object-level vertical search engines  should include all the information within a vertical domain  both on the web and in local databases, the object warehouse  could be enormous.  For example, according to our empirical  study of 51,000 randomly crawled webpages, we found that  more than ten percent of webpages are product pages.  So, if  we include both the product information extracted from  crawled webpages and product data feeds from e-commerce  databases in a search engine, this could entail dealing with  billions of data records.  We need to incorporate large-scale  data processing technologies to make our structured data  retrieval scalable.   In the following sections, we will introduce the system  architecture and infrastructure design with these requirements in  mind.     3. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE  & CORE  TECHNIQUES  In this section, we discuss the system architecture and core  techniques of object-level vertical search engines.    Figure 3 shows the brief architecture of an object-level vertical  search engine.  First, a crawler fetches web data related to the  targeted objects within a specific vertical domain, and the crawled  data is classified into different categories, such as papers, authors,  products, and locations.  For each category, a specific entity  extractor is built to extract objects from the web data.  At the same  time, information about the same object is aggregated from  multiple different data sources.  Once objects are extracted and  aggregated, they are put into the object warehouses, and vertical  search engines can be constructed based on the object warehouses.   Moreover, advanced object-level ranking and mining techniques  can be applied to make search more accurate and intelligent. Figure 3. System Architecture    3.1 Crawler and Classifier  The tasks of the crawler and classifier are to automatically collect  all relevant webpages/documents that contain object information  for a specific vertical domain. 

