Fig. 1. Block diagram of a general PID-based feedback control system.and software [12].
00 © 2007 IEEECHAN et al.: DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF MODULAR FPGA-BASED PID CONTROLLERS 1899 Fig. 1. Block diagram of a general PID-based feedback control system. and software [12].  Using reusable and reconﬁgurable modules, the designer’s task in developing control applications can be greatly simpliﬁed by porting the design into a familiar envi- ronment, such as Matlab/Simulink.  As a result, the develop- ment time for designing efﬁcient embedded software is greatly reduced.  The organization of this paper is given as follows: In Section II, an overview of the components of a general-purpose PID-based feedback control system is presented, followed by an approach for designing the control system using FPGA technology.  In this regard, a novel DA-based PID controller suitable for FPGA implementation is discussed.  In Section III, the implementation results for a temperature control system using the Xilinx [13] and Altera [11] FPGA chips are discussed.  Section IV describes how the FPGA-based controller modules can be used in other applications.  Conclusions are discussed in Section V. II. DESIGN OF FPGA-BASED MODULES IN THE FEEDBACK CONTROL LOOP The block diagram of a general-purpose PID-based feedback control system is shown in Fig. 1, where u c is the command signal, y is the feedback signal, e is the error signal, and u is the control input.  An example of a PID-based feedback control system is the microcontroller-based temperature control system in [14] that will be used in this paper as a case study design problem.  The microcontroller is replaced by an FPGA chip in this paper, as shown in Figs. 4 and 6.  The system consists of a dc fan for cooling the tube, a lamp for heating the tube, and a 10-K thermistor for measuring temperature.  Since an FPGA-based controller can offer advantages in terms of speed, power consumption, and cost over the microprocessor-based approach, we concentrate on the FPGA design of modules that are required in this case study.  In this regard, modules such as the PWM Generator, PID Controller, and the ADC module can be reused in other applications.  Fig. 2 shows the block diagram of the temperature control system using the Uniﬁed Modeling Language (UML) [3], consisting of the following modules: PID Controller, PWM Generator, User Interface, and ADC Interface. 

