Figure 2. Classification of a microfluidic cell culture platform.
 18 Biochip Journal  Vol.  1(1), 17-27, 2007 Figure 1. Schematic dia- gram of microfabrication procedures of a microfluidic device.  UV light ab cd e Photo mask Photoresist Pouring PDMS on the patterned mold Microchannel- patterned mold PDMS curing, cutting,  and bonding Fabricated microfluidic device Inlet OutletMicrofluidics refers to the devices, systems, and methods for the manipulation of fluid flows with characteristic length scales in the micrometer range 34 .  Microfluidic devices are especially suitable for bio- logical applications, particularly on the cellular level, because the scale of channels corresponds with that of cells and the scale of the devices allows important factors to accumulate locally, forming a stable micro- environment for cell cultures 3,11 .  Compared with tra- ditional culture tools, microfluidic platforms provide much greater control over the cell microenvironment and a rapid optimization of media composition using relatively small numbers of cells.  Given that a group of cells can more easily maintain a local microenvi- ronment within a microchannel than in a macroscale culture flasks, cells in microchannels grow signifi- cantly slower than they would in a traditional culture flask 3,10 .  Microtechnologies including microfabrica- tion and microfluidics continuously provide practi- cable opportunities in cell biology with the develop- ment of biocompatible materials and other supple- ment tools for cell cultures and cellular analysis with high-throughput screening (HTS).   In this paper, the microfluidic cell culture platform is described according to categorized cell culture methods (Figure 2). In addition, major results about cell culture platform are presented.  Microfluidic Cell Culture Platform 2-dimensional cell culture.  Mammalian cell cul- ture has played a fundamental role in the develop- ment of biotechnology, including drug screening procedures and the large scale production of pro- teins 3,9,10,35,36 . Figure 2. Classification of a microfluidic cell culture platform. Cell culture platform Single cell-type culture 2D cell culture A ′ B ′ C ′ D ′ E ′ A A B C D E F A ′ B ′ C ′ D ′ E ′ F ′ F ′ F B C D E 3D cell culture 2D/2D co-culture 2D/3D co-culture Cell type 1 Cell type 2 3D/3D co-culture Multiple cell-type culturesional platform in which cells are plated onto a sur- face-treated plastic plate to stimulate cell binding 10 .  A two-dimensional culture method makes it easy to control a single well-defined cell type, and simplifies the manipulation of large quantities of cells, the di- rect detection of the cellular behavior using fluore- scence detection method, as well as the repeated acquiring of this after cellular analysis 5,37 .  For this reason, most microfluidic cell culture systems adapt a two-dimensional culture method.   There are several examples of two-dimensional cul- ture platform that use the cell patterning, laminar flow, and complex structure of PDMS. Patterning techniques based on photo- and soft-lithography have been widely used to modify surface properties for a variety of applications, such as separating cells, posi- tioning cells in confined region, and detecting cellu- lar responses 31,38-42 . 

