Fig. 1. Current process control loop in the CNC manufacturing.
 In recent years, a relationship has been formulated between the equipment maintenance and product quality using the quality control techniques.  Knowledge-based techniques have been applied in various domains of the manufacturing such as prediction and optimisation of machining parameters [28].  These techniques play an important role in manufacturing data analysis.  The various applications of these tools have also been reported and can be useful in realising the process control.  3. State-of-the-art in CNC manufacturing The present CNC manufacturing process control loop has remained unchanged for more than 20 years [29].  Today’s PC-CNC controllers are still only utilised for low level tool path NC code execution, with no access to high- levelinformationonthemajoractivitiesofmachineset-up, tooling set-up/management, inspection planning or results feedback.  Any error in the ﬁnal manufactured part cannot be identiﬁed or traced back to its source.  This is depicted in Fig. 1, which illustrates the feedback in a system that cannot modify the process parameters in CAPP/CAM and manufacturing resources to manufacture the parts consistently.  Product models are widely used for representing design and manufacture of the components.  There are ranges of information standards (ISO-10303-STEP) to represent a product model, but it is recognised that features are vital entities to represent such geometry and their planning and ARTICLE IN PRESS S. Kumar et al. / Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing 23 (2007) 667–676 669manufacturing information.  Even where product models can use features to represent the part design, part- manufacturing data are generated by CAM systems, speciﬁc to an individual machine tool, with vendor-speciﬁc interpretation of toolpath commands as well as on- machine inspection instructions.  The existing inspection standards for programming and for analysis (i.e. dimen- sional measuring interface standard (DMIS) [30]) are implemented on vendor-speciﬁc hardware and can only be utilised for CMMs.  The present system therefore, lacks a standardised form of feedback that can be analysed to provide the corrective measures so that process variations can be evaluated and subsequently compensated.  Inorder toprovidethestandardisedstructuredfeedback for process control, the following points need to be considered: I. The generic format of the interpreted results data and also the required semantics that can be analysed and fed back into the system need to be deﬁned. 

