Fig. 4. IDEF0 representation of STEP-compliant process control framework.
 Machined surface condition is also modelled in the process capability model of the manufacturing model.  The dynamometer provides the spindle forces which becomes the basis for calculating the roughness.  The knowledge-based process analyser evaluates the different surface roughness values for various process parameters and provides the appropriate process parameters for better surfaceroughnessandminimumtoolwear. Thisisthenfed back to the manufacturing and updated product informa- tion in the framework.  5.6. Knowledge-based process analyser The knowledge-based process analyser investigates the pattern of process variations from the obtained data set that relates to the process deviations for the particular component for a set of experiments.  This knowledge-based analyser uses knowledge-based tools to obtain a certain pattern of process variation for the part that can be fed back for the corrective measures. Fig. 4. IDEF0 representation of STEP-compliant process control framework. S. Kumar et al. / Robotics and Computer-Integrated Manufacturing 23 (2007) 667–676 673AnIDEF0representationof information transfer within the framework is illustrated in  Fig. 4. 6. Functional framework for the knowledge-based process analyser The role of the knowledge in the CNC manufacturing process control is to explore the feedback of the process parameters from the CNC to the CAM system. The authors have classiﬁed the knowledge requirements into fourcategoriesi.e.knowledgeacquisition,updatingknowl- edge base, knowledge representation and knowledge reproduction and utilisation.  The functionalities of these elements of the knowledge-based process control system are brieﬂy presented as follows: I. Knowledge acquisition:Tobuildaknowledgebaseonthe basisoftheresultsobtainedfromasetofexperimentsfor various process parameters.  The knowledge base is built by analysing the STEP-NC ﬁle related to manufacturing information and process parameters for the part.  II. Updating knowledge base: Mobile agents are used to support the continuous update of the database, which helps in keeping a record of the previous parameters and subsequently analysing it.  III. Knowledge representation: This is used to represent the knowledge pertaining to features and different process control parameters.  Different clustering techniques that cluster different parameters based on their similarity attribute are also to be used for representing the knowledge in the structured form.  IV. Knowledge reproduction and utilisation:Different knowledge-based tools, and data mining techniques suchasroughsettheoryaretobeappliedtoprovidethe corrective measures for the process parameters from the available knowledge base. 

