Fig. 3. STEP-NC compliant process control framework.
 One important point should be recognised, is that this code is the STEP-NC transfer(physical)ﬁle,whichisimported/exportedintoand out of a STEP-NC intelligent controller.  This ﬁle would be interpreted by the controller, enabling CNC operators to interact at a working step (i.e. machining operation) level via an intelligent MDI or CAD/CAM system at the controller.  It is worth noting that currently two versions of STEP-NC are being developed by ISO. The ﬁrst is the application reference model (ARM) version of ISO14649 (i.e. ISO14649)andtheotheristheApplicationInterpreted Model (AIM) version of ISO14649 (i.e.  AP238 [33]). A STEP-compliant process control framework based on STEP-NC for closing the CAM to CNC feedback loop has been proposed by the authors in this paper.  STEP-NC is seen by the authors as a valuable enabler for process control as it provides CNC control with geometric and process planning data in a consistent format.  In addition,thesedatawhichcanbeupdatedbasedonprocess control feedback introduces the possibility of greater standardisation in process control for CNC machining.  A view of this STEP-NC compliant process control framework is presented in Fig. 3 illustrating its major functional elements.  STEP-compliant information is used at heart of the framework and deﬁnes the speciﬁcations for the part and its features according to the available standards.  This standardised information for the process control deﬁnes, the part and feature deﬁnition and tolerance deﬁnition in conformance to AP 203, AP 240, AP 224, AP 219, ISO- 14649 Part-10 [34–37].  The identiﬁed inspection features aredeﬁnedforthepartasentitiesinISO-14649part-16[38] which also enables these features to be linked with tolerances.  These STEP data represent the opportunity to provide an overall data repository for both design and manufacturing information recognised as a product data model.  The functionalities of the various elements shown in the framework are as follows: 5. 1. Design interpreter This interprets the part design speciﬁcations or features on the basis of which the manufacturing operations of the part are to be carried out. 

