Fig. 2. Process control elements in CNC manufacturing.
 II. The different standards conforming to the inspection of a component, ﬁxturing for the part on the machine tool and tooling requirements need to be investigated so that inspection can be achieved in a strategic and standardised manner.  III. The acquisition of the know-how pertaining to the machining process parameters will need to be repre- sented in a formalised manner within the knowledge base.  IV. Thedifferenttypesofthemanufacturingerrorsneedto be analysed and classiﬁed.  V. The types of feedback need to be decided so that feedback related to the local machining and global manufacturing can be realised and consequently fed back appropriately.  VI. Thedifferentknowledge-basedtoolsaretobeanalysed to effectively provide the feedback from the past experience data set of the component in to the manufacturing system.  4. Various types of process control in CNC manufacturing Process control in CNC manufacturing is deﬁned by the authors as the ability to monitor machining parameters and apply corrective measures where appropriate in order to provide conﬁdence in the machine tools to consistently produce parts within desired tolerance limits.  The authors have identiﬁed three types of process control relevant to CNC manufacturing: static errors, dimensional errors and surface roughness errors.  A ﬁsh bonediagramforprocesscontrolinCNCmanufacturingis shown in Fig. 2 and represents the authors view of classifying process control into three types.  The ﬁrst type of process control feedback compensates for the inherent inaccuracies in the machine tool.  Tool offsets and compensationfordimensionalinaccuracyarecompensated as the second type of feedback.  The third type is related with the feedback of process parameters for better surface roughness.  5. STEP-NC compliant process control framework STEP-NCisadatamodelwhichrepresentsanintelligent CNC control and is formally known as the standard ISO 14649.  Contrary to the current NC programming standard (ISO 6983) [31], ISO 14649 is not a method for part programming and does not normally describe the tool movements for a CNC machine.  Instead, ISO 14649 provides a hierarchical data model for CNCs with a detailed and structured data interface that incorporates feature-based programming where there is a range of information such as the feature to be machined, tool types used, the operations to perform and the work plan. 

