Figure 9. The block diagram of the designed system.
    Figure 8. The block diagram of designed programmer  Table 1 shows the function of each pin in the used smart card.   TABLE 1. DESCRIPTION OF EACH PIN USED IN SMART CARD  Pin No.  Name Function Direction  C1 Vcc Power supply 5 VDC In  C2 Reset CPU Reset line In  C3 XTAL Main clock up to 11 MHz In  C4 MOSI SPI master input In  C5 Vss Power Ground In  C6 Nc Not Connected   C7 MISO SPI Master output Out  C8 SCK SPI serial clock In  C. Integrating Iris Recognition with Smart Card  After extracting data from iris image, it is saved in the smart card's  flash memory using the smart card programmer.  Extracted iris  features stored in smart card are compared against the acquired data  from the camera or the database to confirm that a person is  authenticated or not.  In order to protect the data against manipulation,  a signature of the data has been generated using the MD5 hash  function [12], which produces 18 bytes signature, and then saved in  the smart card.  Hence, in the identification process, the system  generates the biometric template and its signature from the acquired  data and compare them against the smart card contents.  In case of  finding any difference between the generasted and the saved template  or signature, the identification is rejected.  Fig. 9 shows the block  diagram of the designed system.     Figure 9. The block diagram of the designed system.   384 384IV. RESULTS  Iris images are obtained from the Chinese Academy of Sciences  Institute of Automation CASIA Ver.  1 database [13]. The database  consists of 756 iris images from 108 classes.  Experiments were  performed using different combinations of wavelet coefficients and  the results are compared to find the best as shown in Table 2.  The  selected combination gives the best Correct Recognition Ratio (CRR)  for a minimum feature vector of length 236 bits only.   After pre-processing and feature extraction, the template is saved in  the card's EEPROM using the designed card programmer. 

