Fig.1. Schematicdiagramofthevoice-inputvoice-outputcommunicationaid
 More recently, Sharma and Hasegawa-Johnson [14] have demonstrated that maximum a priori (MAP) adaptation from speaker-independent ASR can improve recognition rates, sometimes producing better performance than the equivalent speaker-dependent ASR, though this has not yet been applied in an assistive technology context.  This paper describes the development of a VIVOCA which isintendedtorecognizeandinterpretanindividual’sdisordered speech and deliver the required message in clear synthesized speech.  II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION The development made use of a user-centred design and de- velopmentparadigm. Aninitialdetaileduserrequirementsstudy considered the views of both potential VIVOCA users and of speechandlanguagetherapists/pathologistswhoprovidevoice- output communication aids[15]. A wide rangeof user require- mentswereelicitedandtheVIVOCAwasimplementedtomeet these requirements where feasible.  The development process was iterative and the implementation was gradually reﬁned by testing developments with a group of four potential VIVOCA users.  These four users were people with moderate or severe dysarthria, with one individual having additional verbal dys- praxia.  They tested the device at each stage and gave feedback to allow us to improve the VIVOCA. Fig. 1 shows a schematic of the system and its major com- ponents.  The user speaks into a microphone and the speech is processed and recognized by a speech recognizer.  The recog- nized words are passed to a message building module.  Depen- dentonthisinput,themessagebuildingmodulewillupdatethe screen,potentiallysupplyaudiofeedbacktotheuser,anddeter- minetherangeofpossiblefutureinputs. Thisprocesscontinues Fig.1. Schematicdiagramofthevoice-inputvoice-outputcommunicationaid (VIVOCA). in an iterative fashion as the user builds their message.  When the message is complete it is passed to the speech synthesizer, producing intelligible spoken output via a speaker.  The system components are described below. 

