Figure 1. This is our generic object recognition system. Diﬀerent original feature vectors are constructed from theneighbor of extracted characteristic points in the grayscales images.
 In application, the scale invariant Harris-Laplace detector 11 and the aﬃne invariant interest point detector 12 both proposed by Mikolajczyk and Schmid are most common ones.  Another one proposed by Lowe 13 is also very common.  For each image, there are a diﬀerent number of points and for each point there are a set of feature vectors.  Although in the standard Adaboost algorithm, the feature vectors of all samples should be of the same length.  In Ref. 4, all the distance between every feature and every image were calculated in the preprocessing and the best weak learner among them is found as a weak hypothesis in every step of Adaboost algorithm.  It is quite a huge computing burden during training.  In this paper, we proposed a modiﬁed generic object recognition system with light computing burden and very good performance in comparison with the one in Ref.  4 . 3. GENERIC OBJECT RECOGNITION SYSTEM Our whole system is showed in Fig.1. There are three main diﬀerences in comparison with the one in Ref.  4. The ﬁrst diﬀerence is that we use clustering in order to reduce the number of features.  The second is that we apply KCCA to study the relationship between two distinct features and obtain a new kernel mapping function that can be regarded as a new kernel function and be easily implemented in SVM. Finally, we use SVM instead of Adaboost algorithm for the classiﬁcation.  3.1. Feature Extraction Our feature extraction is similar to the one used in Ref.  4. For all the images, the characteristic patches are detected by Harris corner detector and key point detector.  For each image I i , there are N i detected patches, this can range from hundreds to thousands.  For each patch l, feature vectors f i,l are constructed by some local descriptors such as invariant moment 12∗ and Scale Invariant Feature Transform (SIFT) 13† . 

