Fig. 5. The proposed HAF-HOC scheme, along with a working example.  
As  far  as  the  noise
embedded in the recordings is concerned, such as super-
imposed artifacts from various sources, it has been reported
[55],  [56],  [57]  that  they  are  effectively  eliminated  by
appropriate  bandpass  filtering.  More  particularly,  the Fig. 4. Averaged EEG signal in the time domain, corresponding to each
one  of  the  six  basic  emotions  for  channel  3,  along  with  the
corresponding frequency content, estimated using 2,048-point FFT.influence  of  eye  movement/blinking  is  most  dominant
below  4  Hz;  heart-functioning  causes  artifacts  around
1.2 Hz, whereas muscle artifacts affect the EEG spectrum
above 30 Hz. Nonphysiological artifacts caused by power
lines are clearly above 30 Hz (50-60 Hz). Consequently, by
extracting the alpha and beta frequency bands only from the
acquired EEG recordings, much of the noise influence is
circumvented.
Fig. 4 depicts an example of the averaged EEG signal in
the time domain, corresponding to each one of the six basic
emotions  for  channel  3,  along  with  the  corresponding
frequency content, estimated using 2,048-point Fast Fourier
transform (FFT).4   METHODOLOGY
The overall structure of the HAF-HOC scheme, along with a
working example, is depicted in Fig. 5. After the preproces-
sing stage for signal segmentation and denoising, the EEG
signal is input to the HAF section of the HAF-HOC scheme.
The  role  of  HAF  is  to  isolate  the  emotion-related  EEG
characteristics,  facilitating  the  task  of  the  feature  vector
extraction that follows. To achieve this, HAF incorporates
GA that acts upon the representation of the EEG signal on
the EMD space. In the latter, the EEG signal is decomposed
through  an  iterative  sifting  process  [14]  into  a  series  of
Intrinsic Mode Functions (IMFs) that correspond to differ-
ent oscillatory modes of the EEG signal (see the working
example).  During  the  sifting  procedure,  the  oscillation
mode is qualified as an IMF according to two conditions:
1) For the entire data set, the number of extrema and the
number of zero crossings are either equal or differ at most
by one, and 2) the mean value of the envelope defined by the  local  maxima  and  the  mean  value  of  the  envelope
defined by the local minima are zero at any point [14].