Figure 2.6: Z-domain model for PLL. valid up to frequencies that are much lower than the reference clock frequency and the loop bandwidth is much lower than the sampling frequency.  The z-domain model is a  26more accurate model that captures the sampled nature of the system, and also facilitates the comparison between a PLL and DLL, presented later.
 After the voltage- controlled delay line (Kvcdl) block, the correction term, ph_ctrl, is generated to correct  the phase error.  Remember that in a PLL, the bclk circulates back to the input of the delay  line.  In a DLL, the input of the delay line is rclk.  Therefore in the MX-PDLL, we first  assign different weights to bclk and rclk, and add them up along with the ph_ctrl  correction term at the delay line input.  I is the injection strength of rclk whose phase is  represented by Φin, and (1-I) is the injection strength of bclk.  After one cycle delay, the  next cycle bclk phase can be derived. Figure 3.3: Z-domain representation of a simplified MX-PDLL.  The circuit has two main noise sources – Nout represents the phase modulation of  the MX-VCO/VCDL output (e.g., supply noise), and Nref represents noise on refclk from  off-chip sources. Notice that Nout will accumulate within the accumulator loop in PLL  65 mode.  The injection point of Nout is different from the output noise injection point, as we  saw in Figure 2.6, in order to capture the supply noise accumulation effect in the VCO.   Now let us derive the input phase transfer function (PTF) of the MX-PDLL from  Φin to Φout, and the supply noise transfer function (NTF) from Nout to Φout.  Notice that  the PTF is also the transfer function from Nref to Φout and from Φref to Φout.    () () (1 ) out VCDL in VCDL ILFz VG K zLFZ VG K I Φ+ ∗∗ = Φ+ ∗ ∗ −−  (3. 1)   () , exp( ) 21 CP ref ref I TR T z LF z zRC β β π − ==− −  (3. 2)    () (1 ) out out VCDL z NzLFz VGK I Φ = + ∗∗ − −  (3. 3)  The simulation results of the PTF and NTF across different mixing weights are  shown in Figure 3.4 and Figure 3.5.  The input phase transfer function plot demonstrates that the loop bandwidth of the  MX-PDLL can be tuned over a wide range of frequencies, from the lower PLL  bandwidth all the way to half the reference clock frequency by changing the relative  mixing weights between rclk and bclk.  The bandwidths of the mixed-mode operations are  linearly related to the normalized mixing weights.  This suggests that if the bandwidth of  the PLL is designed to be very low, the maximum tuning range is also increased. 

