Figure 2.3: Charge-pump PLL block diagram.
 These models can  then be used to understand how a PLL reacts to different noise sources and compare its  noise-rejection capabilities to other clock generators.   2.2.1 PLL Topology  In its simplest form, a PLL is a 2 nd  order feedback system that generates a clock  signal whose output phase is aligned with respect to the phase of an input reference clock.   20 Since phase is the integration of frequency, once the phases are aligned, both phase and  frequency are “locked”.  This alignment is achieved by comparing the phase of the output  clock with the phase of the reference.  Any resulting difference in phase, the phase error,  feeds into a block that filters this error and generates a control signal, typically a voltage.   A voltage-controlled oscillator, where the oscillation frequency changes as a function of  the control voltage, then creates the output clock.  Through negative feedback, the control  signal forces the output clock phase to be aligned with the input clock phase, resulting in  zero phase error.   A block diagram of a commonly-used charge pump based PLL is presented in  Figure 2.3, comprised of a voltage-controlled oscillator (VCO), a phase-frequency     PFD bclk rclk Voltage-Controlled Oscillator (VCO) Vctrl Charge Pump and Loop Filter   Figure 2.3: Charge-pump PLL block diagram.   21 detector (PFD), a charge pump (CP), and a loop filter (LF).  The PFD compares the phase  difference between the VCO output clock (bclk) and a reference clock (rclk), and then  sends the phase difference information to the CP. When close to lock, only phase  differences are detected.  When out of lock, the PFD also detects frequency differences in  order to prevent harmonic locking.  The CP is comprised of two switched current sources,  providing charging current and discharging current to the loop filter.  The current sources  are activated through two switches which are controlled by the output of the PFD. A net  charge is dumped into or withdrawn from the LF, which contains a charge-integrating  capacitor, depending on the phase difference information.  The resulting control voltage  (Vctrl) varies the VCO output frequency. 

