Figure 2.8: Charge-pump DLL block diagram.
  28 Another variant of clock generators that has become popular in the past decade is  the DLL, which has very different phase and noise transfer function characteristics, when  compared to those of a PLL. We take a look at the DLL system in the next subsection.     2.3 Review of Delay-Locked Loops  Like the PLL, a DLL can also provide an accurate timing relationship between an  input clock and output clock.  Therefore, it is also a viable option for clock generation in a  high-speed link.  The DLL is also a sampled system and so a discrete-time z-domain  model can again be used to understand its characteristics.  In particular, the input phase  noise transfer function and output noise transfer function are derived, but let us first  understand how a DLL works.     2.3.1 DLL Topology  A DLL is also a feedback system.  Instead of using a VCO, a DLL utilizes a  voltage-controlled delay line (VCDL) to generate an output clock that is a delayed  version of the input clock, where the delay through the VCDL is a fixed fraction (often  50% or 100%) of the input clock period.  While there are several ways to implement a  DLL, Figure 2.8 presents a block diagram of a commonly-used charge pump based DLL  topology.  A phase detector (PD) measures the phase difference between coincident edges  of the input and output clocks of the VCDL. The charge pump (CP) generates pulses of  charge, proportional to the phase error, which is then integrated by the capacitor in the  29 loop filter (LF).  The resulting voltage out of the LF sets the magnitude of the control  voltage (Vctrl) that determines the delay through the VCDL. Since the reference clock  (rclk) also feeds into the input of the VCDL, delay through the VCDL is fixed with  respect to the period of rclk through negative feedback. Figure 2.8: Charge-pump DLL block diagram.  A DLL is inherently simpler and easier to stabilize than a PLL. The VCO in a  PLL must change frequency in order to adjust its output phase, introducing an integrator.   In comparison, the phase of the clock edge out of the VCDL is directly controlled by  Vctrl, which corresponds to a simple gain without integration.  Hence, a DLL can be  designed as a first-order loop and obviates adding proportional control to stabilize the  loop.  Moreover, frequency detection is not needed since the input and output clocks  nominally have the same frequency. 

