Figure 4. SoCWire CODEC derived from Space Wire, w/o Serializer/Deserializer
 A data  character (10bit length) is formed by 1 parity bit, 1 data- control flag and 8 data bits and includes data to be  transmitted, as shown in Figure 3.   The data-control flag indicates, if the current character  is a data (0) or control character (1).  Control characters  (4-bit length) are used for flow control: A flow control  token (FCT), end of packet markers (EOP or EEP) and an  escape character (ESC) are used to form higher level    control codes (8-14bit length) e.g.  NULL (ESC+FCT) and  Time-Code (ESC + Data character).     Figure 3. Data character    6. 2. SoCWire CODEC    As mentioned before, SpaceWire is a serial link  interface and the performance of the interface depends on  skew, jitter and the implemented technology.  For our  NoC approach we are in a complete on-chip environment  with up to 6 reconfigurable modules, which can be  operated by one switch.  The maximum character length in  the SpaceWire standard without time code, which is not  needed in our NoC, is 10bit (data character).  Therefore  we have modified the SpaceWire interface to a 10bit  parallel data interface, as depicted in Figure 4.    10bit 10bit   Figure 4. SoCWire CODEC derived from Space Wire,  w/o Serializer/Deserializer  The advantage of this parallel data transfer interface is  that we can achieve significantly higher data rates as  compared to the SpaceWire standard.  Additionally, we  have implemented a scalable data word width (8-128bit)  to support medium to very high data rates.    On the other hand we keep in our implementation the  advantageous features of the SpaceWire standard  including flow control and hot-plug ability.  Also the error  detection is still fully supported making it suitable for an  SEU sensitive environment.  Figure 5 shows a simulation  of a full-duplex point-to-point (A and B) communication.   It shows the data interface (dat_in, dat_out), control  signals (dat_ful, dat_nwrite, dat_empty) and the signals of  one link (TX, RX).  Core A TX, RX(0) reflects the parity,  Core A TX, RX(1) the data-control flag and Core A TX,  RX(2-9) data character or control character  The initial data transfer phase shows 11 data characters  until the first FCT occurs, which leads to the internal core  data pipeline. 

