Figure 1. Web Object and Object Extraction
      Due to the nature of this violation, reasonable effort should be made to remove all past  references to this paper, and future references should be made to the following article:    "Web Object Retrieval"  by Zaiqing Nie, Yunxiao Ma, Shuming Shi, Ji-Rong Wen, and Wei-Ying Ma  in the Proceedings of the 16th International World Wide Web Conference (WWW2007),  May 2007, ACM     Language Models for Web Object Retrieval      Jianfeng Zheng  School of Economics and Management   BUPT  Beijing,China  kezheng@microsoft.com    Zaiqing Nie   Microsoft Research Asia  Microsoft   Beijing, China  znie@microsoft.com      Abstract    Document-level information retrieval can  unfortunately lead to highly inaccurate relevance  ranking in answering object-oriented queries.  A  paradigm is proposed to enable searching at the  object level.  However, this reliability assumption  is no longer valid in the object retrieval context  when multiple copies of information about the  same object typically exist.  To resolve multiple  copies inconsistent issue, we propose several  language models for Web object retrieval, namely  an unstructured object retrieval model, a  structured object retrieval model, and a hybrid  model with both structured and unstructured  retrieval features.  We test these models on a paper  search engine and compare their performances.   We conclude that the hybrid model is the superior  by taking into account the extraction errors at  varying levels.     Keywords: Web Objects, Information Retrieval,  Language Model, Information Extraction    1.  Web Object and Object Extraction    Figure 1 shows the compounds of a Web object  and a flowchart to extract the object from Web  sources.  The key messages conveyed by the figure  are:  • The contents of a Web object are aggregated  from multiple Web sources.  These copies may  be inconsistent because of the diverse Web  site qualities and the limited performance of  current information extraction techniques.  • From each source, two steps are taken to  extract the wanted information.  First, record  extraction [6] is applied to get data records  relevant to the domain from the resource.   Second, attribute extraction [12] is used to  label different portions of each extracted  record as different attributes.  Both of the two  steps are unlikely to be accurate.  Record  extraction can extract a totally wrong record,  miss some parts of a record, or add irrelevant  information to a record. 

