Fig. 3. Sample agent interactionthe other on the outer race of the drive-end bearing.
 The search request includes the requester’s agent-id, and the required variables.  Registry agent’s reply to an information request: Upon receiving a search request, the registry agent veriﬁes that the request is legitimate before searching its database to determine which agents can supply the requested variables and the status of these agents.  The message from the registry agent to the requester includes the requested variable name, the agent-id of the agent publishing the variable and the status of the requested agent.  Request for belief subscription: Upon receiving the list of agents capable of providing the required input from the registry, the subscribing agent sends requests directly to these agents.  A subscription request consists of the requester’s agent-id, requested input variable name, the duration of sub- scription time, the desired time interval between subsequent updates, and a request-id.  Belief-update messages: Upon receiving a belief subscription request the publishing agent sends regular updates within the agreed intervals and duration of the subscription.  The message contains the request-id, the sender’s id and the requested information.  Figure 3 depicts a sample agent interaction for the condi- tion monitoring system.  V. EXPERIMENTATION Having designed condition monitoring system using the most appropriate features of existing MAS design method- ologies, the next stage was to implement the prototype.  To achieve this the multiagent building toolkit, JADE (Java Agent DEvelopment Framework) was used.  JADE is a middle-ware that could be used to develop agent-based appli- cations in compliance with the FIPA speciﬁcations for inter- operable intelligent multi-agent systems.  JADE is java-based and provides the infrastructure for agent communication in distributed environments, based on FIPA standards.  A. Vibration Data The investigation in this study is based on the data obtained from Case Western Reserve University website.  The experimental setup comprised of a Reliance Electric 2HP IQPreAlert connected to a dynamometer. 

