Fig. 2. Bearing condition monitoring systembound for this classical domain of the features and the otherrepresents the upper bound.
 The three main phases, as depicted in the ﬁgure are; requirements capture and task decomposition; agent modelling and agent interactions modelling.  A. Requirements Capture and Task Decomposition This is the ﬁrst stage which identiﬁes the application domain, overall problem, objectives, MAS application en- vironment such as information that will be available to an agent, actions required of the agents, and operational and performance constraints.  In this stage, task decomposition is performed to determine what the system is supposed to do and not how it is supposed to do it to achieve overall MAS objectives.  In the agent community; decomposition is concerned with the partitioning of the problem domain into agents.  The main focus of this phase is gaining an understanding of what the system does in the abstract, which serves as a starting point for the architecture development 645Fig. 1. Architecture development for the multi-agent system process.  The activities undertaken in this phase pertain to understanding the application domain, identifying goals and boundaries of the system, and relating them to the agent design.  B. Agent Modelling Having decomposed the problem into constituent tasks, the next stage is to identify the agents required to effectively perform the tasks in terms of deﬁnition of agent roles; identifying the types of interactions needed between different agents in order to achieve individual or joint goals; and specifying the organization of the different agents in terms of a society of agents that is consistent with the various deﬁned roles and that achieves the overall objectives.  Figure 2 depicts the bearing condition monitoring system with different agents.  1) Feature Extraction Agent: Feature extraction agent was designed to provide the necessary data to the interpretation agents.  Many parameters may be used to characterize vibra- tion signal.  Basic statistical parameters are used to form the feature vector, providing some indication of the shape (cross- correlation), symmetry (skew), peaked ness (kurtosis) of the vibration signal, effectively producing the ﬁngerprint of the vibration signal.  The feature vector consists of parameter capable of differentiation between different faults.  In this work, one feature extration agent is used since decided to extract the statistical features only.  2) Interpretation Agents: a) Extension Neural Network Agent: ENN is a new pat- tern classiﬁcation system based on concepts from neural net- works and extension theory [16]. 

