Fig. 1. Data Collection and Processing by the Log system
  After analyzing different possibilities of usage data collection and  taking into account the aforementioned drawbacks, it was clear that  a different kind of approach was in demand to meet the needs of  this study.  As a result, a special log system was used.    The log system [17] was developed in 2003 and based on a  preliminary log system introduced in 2002, which allowed storing  only some basic properties of actions users performed and was  only aimed on general usage statistics.  The major improvement  towards the new log system was the ability to capture distinct and  recurring user sessions, which is also the basis of users’ profiles  construction. Fig. 1. Data Collection and Processing by the Log system    The web access log contains raw access data, which needs to be  cleaned from noise and filtered before it can be used for user  profiles extraction. Therefore, crawlers/robots detection rules were  added to the log system, and our own experience, as blocking of IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, Vol.  55, No. 3, AUGUST 2009    1180  search robots incorporates the risk of losing potential visitors.   Moreover, most of the robots gather and index the content of the  site for free.  The log system is initialized every time a page request  is made (Fig.1). The approach is totally transparent and thus  requires no active participation from the users. Fig. 2. Architecture of Ontology-based Recommendation System     Fig.2 shows a framework of the ontology-based semantic  recommendation system proposed in this paper.  Various kinds of  services and user profiles or user logs are constructed as ontology.  Several kinds of ontology are integrated as semantic home service  ontology (SSO) and defined into 4 types of ontology: Devices  Ontology, Function Ontology, Operation Ontology, and  Conditional Ontology.  Created ontology is stored into the Semantic  Home Server (SHS) and the SHS recommend and provide services  to various kinds of electric devices semantically by the  wire/wireless network.     Fig. 3. Schema of Semantic Home Services Ontology  In suggested system, SSO is represented by OWL (Web  Ontology Language).  Information about devices is stored into  OWLClass and Individual.  Devices category can be classes  and detail devices can be included in individuals. 

