Fig. 6. Recommendations Generation based on Ontology for User Profile 
and Services 
This  way,  relations  between  different  users  may  be  modeled 
as well.  
“Interest”,   “Preference”,   “Ability”,  “Characteristic”  and 
“Thing” contain only three slots: “type”, “name” and “score” 
(or  “value”  in  the  case  of  “Thing”).  “Thing”  has  two  sub-
classes, “Living Thing” and “Non Living Thing” as modeled 
in  the  WORLDNET  ontology  [21].  In  the  case  of  interests, 
apart  from  the  “type”  slot,  which  is  a  String,  a  slot  named 
“interest type” of type “Interest” has been added to allow the 
creation of interest hierarchies, 
It  should  be  mentioned  here  that  in  the  case  of  the 
“Expertise”  class,  the  aim  was  to  collect  from  the  existing 
literature user characteristics that may serve as indications or 
factors during the assessment of the user expertise level. The 
definition  of  the  expertise  levels  them  and  the  expertise 
measures are application-specific and out of the scope of the 
current  work.  To  sum  up,  the  “Expertise”  class  has  been 
created   as   a   container   for  both   expertise   measures   and 
expertise scores in order to accommodate the particular needs 
of individual applications that make use of profiling.  
IV.  RECOMMENDATION METHOD IN ONTOLOGY-BASED 
RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM 
The  amount  of  information  available  over  the  Internet  is 
enormous  -  even  the  quantum  of  information  on  an  average 
web site is fairly large for users to maintain easy navigation. 
This problem can be revealed by providing recommendations 
based  on  user  profiles  mined  from  web  logs. The  rationale 
behind  the  approach  of  recommender  systems  is  that  users 
implicitly use a concept model based on their own knowledge 
of the domain or topic searched, even though mostly they do 
not   know   how   to   represent   it   [7].   However,   having 
unobtrusively monitored users’ actions and collected them in 
the log, it is possible to apply detection algorithms to produce 
the concept models of users, i.e., extract user profiles. 
By  analyzing  the  actions  of  the  current  user  online  and 
comparing it to the user profiles discovered from the web log, 
it is possible to classify the user as an individual into one of 
the  conceptual  user  groups  and  recommend  him/her  new 
pages    that    correlate    with    that    individual    (primary 
recommendation), highlight items, so that they could be easily 
located    or    even    propose    a    new    topology    (analytic 
recommendation). 
The  items  in  extracted  user  profiles  do  not  contain  any 
semantic  information  about  the  content  represented  on  the 
web-site.  Therefore,  the  extracted  user  profiles  need  to  be 
mapped  to  the  concepts  of  web  ontology.  For  that  reason, 
profiles   ontology   is   constructed.   At   this   point,   it   was 
composed  manually,  however  in  the  future  it  is  planned  to 
implement  an  automated  generation  of  the  OWL-file.  In  the 
user  profile  ontology,  several  user  concepts  were  defined  in order  to  give  meaning  to  the  mining  results  and  propose 
recommendations.