Figure 1.  EIRS System framework
00 © 2008 IEEE DOI 10. 1109/ICCSIT.2008.40 973performance, our propositions for the application of tas  are as follows.  (1) The terms belonging to tas 1 and 3 could be  used with different weight to show their relative  importance (termed as ‘sensitivity’ in the paper) in the  vector to express the user’s interest.  (2) The terms belonging to tas 2 could be used in  the vector to express the user’s disinterest.  It could be  used to provide key words in the query string with  “NOT” operator.    Therefore, the extraction and the application of tas  could be located as complementary.  In this study, we  experiment with the effect of the propositions  mentioned.  According to the propositions, the design  of the system for the expression of the user’s  information requirement can be specified as follows.  (1)Maintain a positive user profile to contain terms  appeared in relevant documents and a negative user  profile to contain terms appeared in non-relevant  documents to support the extraction of term appearance  situations.  (2)Maintain a positive user profile weighted by  term’s frequency and term’s relative importance  together to express the user’s interest and use this  expression to provide key words for the generation of  query string and basis for similarity comparison  between the user’s interest and the retrieved document.  (3)Maintain a negative user profile to contain terms  appeared in non-relevant document only and weighted  by term’s frequency to express the user’s disinterest  and use this expression to provide key words for the  generation of query string with “NOT” operator.     3. The Experimental Vector-Space- Modeled System    Based on the system design initiated in the previous  section, we have developed an IR system, EIRS  (Experimental Informational Retrieval System), to  extract and apply the information of tas. Figure 1 shows the system framework of EIRS. It  contains five main modules denoted by the solid line  rectangles. Two modules denoted by the dotted line  rectangles outside the basic system are used to support  the experimental process.  The functional summary of  each module is described as follows.   User Input and Feedback: This module supports the  input of one example document originally, the input of  the retrieved documents and the user’s rating of  relevance and irrelevance feedback.    Learning Agent: The main function of the learning  agent is to learn the user’s information requirement  from the example documents provided by the user, the  documents retrieved by EIRS and the relevance  feedback given by the user for the documents retrieved.      Figure 1.  EIRS System framework  The positive user profile is a database table with  three attributes – term, frequency and sensitivity.    Term frequency is determined by Formula and Table  1.  After the user evaluates 10 webpages, sensitivity  value is generated according to tas in relevant/non- relevant documents as shown in Table 2. 

