Figure 1.Global Hand Posture Detection and Recognition
the main objectives of our approach. able  to  work  under  different  degrees  of  scene  background 
complexity  and  illumination  conditions,  which  shouldn’t 
change   during   the   execution.   The   following   processes 
compose the general framework: 
 
a) Initialization: the recognizable postures are stored in a 
visual memory, which is created in a start-up step. In order 
to configure this memory, different ways are proposed. 
 
b) Acquisition: a frame from the webcam is captured. 
 
c)  Segmentation:  each  frame  is  processed  separately 
before  its  analysis:  the  image  is  smoothed,  skin  pixels  are 
labelled, noise is removed and small gaps are filled. Image 
edges are found, and finally, after a blob analysis, the blob 
which represents the user’s hand is segmented. A new image 
is  created  which  contains  the  portion  of  the  original  one 
where the user’s hand was placed. 
 
d)  Pattern  Recognition:  once  the  user’s  hand  has  been 
segmented, its posture is compared with those stored in the 
system’s    visual    memory    (VMS)    using    three    stage 
recognition   process   Kalman   filtering   process,   hidden 
Markov models and graph matching.   
 
e)  Executing  Action:  finally,  the  system  carries  out  the 
corresponding  action  according  to  the  recognized  hand 
posture the output of the system can then letter / digit / voice 
/ word. III.      HAND POSTURE DETECTION 
The  operators  developed  for  image  processing  must  be 
kept  low  time  consuming  in  order  to  obtain  the  fast 
processing   rate   needed   to   achieve   real   time   speed. 
Furthermore,   certain   operators   should   be   adaptable   to 
different light conditions and backgrounds. Best  results  were  achieved  using  a  mean  filter,  among 
the  different  approaches  of  proposed  lineal  filters.  The 
appearance  of  the  skin-tone  color  depends  on  the  lighting 
conditions.  Artificial  light  may  create  reddish  pictures,  as 
shown  in  Figure  3,  which  means  different  values  for  skin-
tone  colors.  The  histograms  on  the  left  side  of  figure  3 
represent   the   distribution   of   skin   hue   and   saturation 
components  for  artificial  light  (red  line)  and  natural  light (blue  line).  Values  are  shifted  to  the  right  for  the  artificial 
light  values.  A  lighting  compensation  technique  that  uses 
“reference  average”  was  introduced  to  normalize  the  color 
appearance.  The  normalization  operation  subtracts  from 
each  pixel  color  band  (R,G,B)  the  average  of  the  whole 
image, so odd colored images like the reddish one are turned 
into  more  natural images.  The histograms  on the right side 
of figure 3 show that after this operation, skintone colors in 
different light conditions are much more similar. 