Figure 2. Multi-energy resource interactions.
 The use of real-time prices and  information will be crucial.  However, the economical feasibility  remains to be investigated.     3.2.3    Link to mobility    On the electricity demand side, plug-in hybrid cars can also  be considered an option for efficient energy use.  Plug-in  hybrid electric vehicles (PHEV) are the next phase in the  evolution of hybrid and electric vehicles.  Hybrid electric  vehicles combine a conventional internal combustion engine  (powered by petrol, diesel or biofuel) and electric motors.    Since PHEVs can be controlled in their charging process  quite easily, they form an excellent candidate for a  controllable load.      3.2.4.  Multi-energy approach    In order to capture the larger-scale consequences of DG  implementation or load activation; natural gas and electricity  networks and the off-take profiles have to be considered in  parallel as overlaid networks.  An investigation of the  parameters driving the profiles provides information about  how they can be influenced accounting for impact of local  renewable energy sources (Figure 2). Eventually the three  resources have to be distinguished: electricity, natural gas,  and renewables in a broad sense. Figure 2. Multi-energy resource interactions.    In summary, activation of electrical loads with small  users, the so-called demand-side participation, helps further  deployment of sustainable types of distributed generation  such as wind power, PV and CHP through a contribution to  balancing locally as well as globally.  As such it represents a  contribution to the security, adequacy and stability of supply  through the enlarged diversification of primary energy  resources and the creation of necessary ancillary services,  more in particular reserve provision.  Unlike a blunt  introduction of DG, a combined introduction of both types of  DER, DG and complementary demand control may help to  solve the ‘reliability paradox’.   Further research is required into the technological  implementation of demand control.  A new class of active  metering devices is required.  Their communication and  distributed control algorithms form a challenge. 

