Figure 5. Multi-Agent based Transformer Condition Monitoring System
  Then, they are analyzed by means of the following methods  (depicted in Fig. 3): (a) PRPD analysis for classification  purposes [8], (b) PD trend analysis for insulation status quo,   (c) Expert system.   Step 2: In this application, the main tasks are: Data  acquisition, PD analysis including PD classification & trend  analysis, result interpretation & condition evaluation,  interaction with user.  This task will be delegated to different  agents.   3Step 3: For ontology designing system’s physical  components, their interconnections and also acquired  parameters by hardware units have to be considered.  The  ontology has been considered to contain only common PD  features of a transformer which makes it to be applicable in  other similar condition monitoring systems despite the  likelihood differences might be in between data acquisitions  and hardware configuration of the system.  Common features of  PDs should to be merely considered.  Fig. 4 shows the structure  of the mentioned ontology.   Figure 4. Condition Monitoring Ontology Step 4: As it depicted in Fig. 5, this system is divided into  four levels, and agents of each level have access to agents of  lower levels.  More details about agents of each level are as  follow:  1) Data acqisition Level:This level contains only one type  of agent (i.e.  Data Acquisition Agent).  Data acquisition agent is  responsible for transferring PD data from data acquisition  hardware to the proprietary software component where the  transferring is done as soon as the agent receives requests from  other agents.   Figure 5. Multi-Agent based Transformer Condition Monitoring System 1) Analysis Level:PD Classification Agent and PD Trend  analysis agent are two types of agents which are located in this  level.  These agents’ tasks (analysis) can be performed in a  cyclic manner or receiving requests from administrator agent.   2) Interpretation and Condition Evaluation Level:As matter  of facts, Interpretation Agent in this level performs as an  expert. 

