Figure 2. A Simple Condition Monitoring System Structure
 The  ontology describes the concepts of a domain and the  relationship between those concepts in a structured manner.  For  example, ontologies for use with the Java Agent Development  Framework (JADE) [5] contain a class hierarchy of concepts,  predicates, and agent actions.  Agents use the ontology for the  passing of information, formulating questions and requesting  the execution of actions related to their specific domain.   JADE is among distinct programming packages which is  used in multi-agent systems implementation, supports FIPA  protocols and standards.  JADE is a software platform that  provides basic middleware-layer functionalities which are  independent of the specific application and simplify the  realization of distributed applications that exploit the software  agent abstraction.  A significant merit of JADE is that it  implements this abstraction over a well-known object-oriented  language, Java, providing a simple and friendly API [6].  III. CONDITION MONITORING SYSTEM BASICS Before explaining the design steps of condition monitoring  system, some important aspects of a simple transformer  condition monitoring system will be discussed.    A. Overall Structure of a Condition Monitoring System  This prototype transformer condition monitoring system  consists of different parts as depicted at Fig. 2. Figure 2. A Simple Condition Monitoring System Structure  Data acquisition section consists of sensors, A/D  converters, and interface module for contacting with analysis  section and software modules.  In this application desired  sensors are PD sensors.  Analysis and condition evaluation  section contains some software modules designed to  manipulate and interpret data acquired by data acquisition  section.  Type of PD sensor can influence the analysis.  But it is  possible to extract and select some features from acquired PD  data that make the analysis independent from the structure of  acquisition system.    B. Partial Discharge Analysis and Monitoring  Partial discharges are localized electrical discharges that  only partially bridge the insulation between conductors which  can or cannot occur adjacent to a conductor [7].  PD pulses have  useful information about the condition of the equipment where  they stems from. 

