Figure 1. FIPA Agent Management Reference model
  II. AGENTS AND MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS The term ‘agent’, or software agent, has found its way into  a number of technologies and has been widely used.  According  to Wooldridge [1], an agent is merely “a software (or  hardware) entity that is situated in some environment and is  able to autonomously react to changes in that environment.”  An agent which displays flexible autonomy, i.e., an intelligent  agent, has the following three characteristics: Reactivity, Pro- activeness and Social ability.   A multi-agent system is simply a system comprising two or  more agents or intelligent agents.  It is important to recognize  that there is no overall system goal, simply the local goals of  each separate agent.  In recent years, the Foundation for  Intelligent Physical Agents’ (FIPA) standards has become the  de facto standards used by MAS developers [3].  FIPA standard  consists of different parts and aspects:  Multi-Agent System Architectures  Agent Communication Languages  Content Languages and Ontologies  The FIPA Agent Management Reference model [4] defines  the normative framework within which FIPA agents exist and  operate.  It establishes the logical reference model for the  creation, registration, location, communication, migration and  retirement of agents.  Under the FIPA model, Fig. 1, an agent  1 2010 International Conference on Solid Dielectrics, Potsdam, Germany, July 4-9, 2010 978-1-4244-7944-3/10/$26. 00 ©2010 IEEEresides on a particular agent platform which provides some sort  of message transport system to allow the agents to  communicate.  Each agent platform includes two utility agents:  the agent management service (AMS) agent, which is  compulsory, and the directory facilitator (DF) agent, which is  optional.  The AMS acts as white pages, maintaining a directory  of agents registered with the MAS platform.  The DF acts as  yellow pages, maintaining a directory of agents and the  services they can offer other agents.   Figure 1. FIPA Agent Management Reference model  Mechanisms for the communication between agents  underpin their sociabilities.  Early multi-agent systems used  proprietary communication languages. 

