Figure 4. Condition Monitoring Ontology
 For  example, the different analysis of the PD data is considered to  be special tasks.  General tasks do not depend on the type of the  equipment, whereas they are the same across the whole system.   3) Ontology Design  Ontology designing likewise agent type determination and  designing is an important step in designing multi agent  systems.  Ontology describes the fundamental aspects pertinent  to a domain and their relations [10].  The main parts of ontology  designing are: (a) classes or concepts, (b) properties of each  class defining features and attributes related to each class or  concept, sometimes called slots, roles and predicates, (c)  applied limitation on slots (facets), sometimes called ‘agent  action limitations’ in JADE. Ontologies in JADE package have three main subsets:  Concepts, Agent Action, and Predicate.  Ontology designing is  one of the controversial topics in implementing of Multi-Agent  systems.  There is an increasing need for ontology  standardization in power system applications where  generalization and combination of the designed multi agent  based systems are intended [11].  Considering the descriptions  above, a typically suggested ontology in condition monitoring  of power transformers is presented in Fig. 4. For simplification, 4) Agents Designing and system architecture  Designing of agents is a kind of three step process:  specifying the tasks of agents, designing of agent’s life-cycle,  determining the agents’ connections and interactions.  Using  JADE package, agent task can be defined as different types of behaviors.  Structure of multi-agent based condition monitoring  system depends on types and connections between different  agents.  For better understanding, it would be better to divide  the structure of the system into several levels regarding agent  task hierarchy.  This will be broadly explained in the following  section.    B. Case Study  Considering the aforementioned steps, a system for  monitoring of PD activities in a transformer has been given as  an example in this section representing a multi-agent based  mentoring system.   Step 1: Here a typical conventional data acquisition module  using say capacitor sensor, is exploited to acquire PD data;  transferring to host computer where the recorded fields would  contain time tags, voltage, charge and phase position of PDs. 

