Figure 3. Conventional handoff algorithm
Compared with the  horizontal handoff, the vertical handoff faces some  challenges to roaming across the heterogeneous  networks because of the differences [6]:  z When a mobile host moves from WMAN to  WLAN, the handoff cannot be triggered by the  conventional way of monitoring connection  quality through the physical layer measurement  since no sign of losing the connection will be  detected.   Some decision algorithm based on subjective  criteria such as personal preference, connection  qualities, or cost may be necessary for the handoff  from IEEE 802. 16 network to IEEE 802. 11  network.  z In vertical handoff between WMAN and WLAN,  there is no comparable signal strength available to  aid the decision as in horizontal handoff because  the received signal strength samples from WMAN  and WLAN are heterogeneous quantities that  cannot be compared directly.  z During a handoff procedure, the metrics, which  upper-layer applications are really interested in,  are network conditions, rather than the physical  layer parameters such as received signal strength  and signal-to-interference ratio.  z IP handoff completion time is much uncertain in  heterogeneous networks, which adds extra  complexity to estimate IP handoff timing  correctly.   What has been presented in the above shows that the  25  configurations of handoff threshold and timing  variables become hardly successful in vertical handoff.   A new proactive and adaptive perspective to decide the  handoff threshold and timing is required in  heterogeneous wireless networks.     4. Conventional handoff algorithm    In this section, a conventional handoff algorithm,  which is based on RSS threshold, is presented.  Figure 3  illustrates the algorithm.   First, in sampling intervals RSS values are measured  and their averages are computed in the averaging  window.  Then, handoff initiation mechanism indicates  if handoff process will be started or not.  This  mechanism, when the current cell is a WLAN,  compares current RSS (RSSc) with a threshold value  (TH L ), if RSSc is less than TH L , handoff will be started.   When the current cell is a WWAN, this mechanism  will start handoff in two cases: either current RSS  (RSSc) is less than a threshold (TH W ) or RSS from a  WLAN is more than a threshold (TH L ).  If handoff is  started, cell selection mechanism selects best available  WWAN (“W”) and best available WLAN (“L”) by  comparing all RSS values.  The handoff decision  mechanism is the main part of the algorithm. 

