Figure   5.   Bandwidth   based   adaptive   fuzzy   logic 
handoff algorithm for hybrid networks  
Demand Assigned Multiple Access (DAMA) 
services  are  given  resources  on  a  demand  assignment 
basis, as the need arises. When an SS needs to ask for 
bandwidth on a connection with BE scheduling service, 
it sends a message to the BS containing the immediate 
requirements  of  the  DAMA  connection.  QoS  for  the 
connection was established at connection establishment 
and  is  looked  up  by  the  BS.  The  bandwidth  that  the 
802.16 network assigns to the mobile host is supposed 
to be         W      BW   . 
 
6.  Bandwidth  based  adaptive  fuzzy  logic 
handoff algorithm 
 
When a mobile host connected to the Internet moves 
into  a  new  IEEE  802.11  network,  it  would  like  to 
change  the  connection  to  WLAN  to  obtain  higher 
bandwidth. Since the WMAN is always on, the handoff 
cannot be triggered by signal decay of the IEEE 802.16 
network.  We  can  utilize  the  bandwidth  as  handoff 
metric.   
In this section the adaptive fuzzy logic based handoff 
algorithm  for  hybrid networks [8] is presented. handoff algorithm for hybrid networks   
Figure 5   depicts   the   algorithm.   The   difference   from   the 
conventional  decision  mechanism  is  that,  here  the 
metric  is  bandwidth  not  RSS  and  HYSL  and  HYSW 
values are updated by a fuzzy logic system. Figure   5.   Bandwidth   based   adaptive   fuzzy   logic 
handoff algorithm for hybrid networks   
Handoff decision  mechanism is illustrated in Figure 
6 and Figure 7. 
1)  When the current cell is a WMAN (Figure 6), since the  priority  is  to  make  handoff  to  WLAN,  first 
bandwidth  of  the  suggested  WLAN  is  checked.  If 
BWL  exceeds  the  threshold  (THL)  by  an  amount 
HYSL,  handoff  will  be  done  to  the  best  WLAN; 
otherwise    handoff    to    the    best    WMAN    is 
investigated. If BWW exceeds the current bandwidth 
(BWc) by an amount HYSW, handoff is made to the 
best WMAN, otherwise no handoff occurs.  When  the  current  cell  is  a  WLAN  (Figure  7),  first 
the  best  WLAN  is  investigated.   