Fig. 1. Composition of SAPP executive committee.
 Major transmission constraints have been noted between Zimbabwe-Botswana and South Africa.  This is due to the geographical locations of the countries where major trading is from South to North and vice versa, depending on time of day.  Utilities have entered into different peak and off-peak contracts.  The Grand Inga site in DRC has a hydro potential of close to 40 000 MW. It is the desire of the DRC to develop this site to its full potential for the beneﬁt of Northern and Southern Africa.  The realization of the interconnection of DRC to the Northern countries would mark the beginning of an interconnected African Grid.  The Zambia-Tanzania-Kenya Inter-connector would also facilitate the interconnection to Eastern Africa.  Africa can thereby utilize the diversity in resources and time differentials for the economic dispatch of the generating units.  F . SAPP Membership Review A special Documentation Review Working Group (DRWG) was set up to review the SAPP documents so as to consider admitting Independent Power Producers (IPP) and Independent Transmission Companies (ITC) into SAPP. The proposed new composition of the Executive Committee is indicated in Fig. 1. The proposed representation is as follows. Fig. 1. Composition of SAPP executive committee. • One representative from each operating member, one from each non operating member, one from each ITC, and one from each IPP. • Each member will carry one vote. • Chairmanship will be restricted to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcers (CEOs) from government-owned power utilities that are operating members. The overall proposed restructuring of SAPP is shown in  Fig. 2. The restructuring of SADC has necessitated this. Also as SAPP is moving toward competitive markets, the Markets Subcommittee has been introduced.  III. CENTRAL AFRICAN POWER POOL (CAPP), THE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL AFRICAN STATES (ECCAS), AND THE NEW PARTNERSHIP FOR AFRICA’S DEVELOPMENT (NEPAD) A. CAPP CAPP is a very new subregional institution, created in Braz- zaville on 12 April 2003 under the auspices of the ECCAS. CAPP presently is the focal point for discussions on regional power markets; member states of ECCAS rely upon CAPP for technical analysis of proposals for power sharing between member states. Fig. 2. SAPP management structure. infrastructures and the organization of energy exchanges and the related services in ECCAS; and 3) develop regional power man- agement and trading arrangements in Central Africa. It aspires to become a major player in regional cooperation in the power sector.  CAPP’s vision is to exploit the enormous hydroelectric po- tential of Central Africa estimated at more than 650 000 GWh (53% of the whole African potential) to satisfy all demands in electricity for households, states, and central African industry.  2) Members: Any public, private, and/or semi-public elec- tricity supply enterprises of ECCAS member states may become a member of CAPP. Present members of CAPP are AES-SONEL (Cameroon), ENERCA (Central African Republic), SNE (Republic of Congo), SEEG (Gabon), SEGESA (Equatorial Guinea), SNEL (Democratic Republic of Congo), EMAE (Sao Tome & Principe), and STEE (Chad). 

