Fig. 2.    SAPP management structure.
Western Power Corridor that aims to interconnect Inga in
DRC to Angola, Namibia, Botswana, and South Africa.
Major  transmission  constraints  have  been  noted  between
Zimbabwe-Botswana  and  South  Africa.  This  is  due  to  the
geographical locations of the countries where major trading is
from South to North and vice versa, depending on time of day.
Utilities have entered into different peak and off-peak contracts.
The Grand Inga site in DRC has a hydro potential of close to
40 000 MW. It is the desire of the DRC to develop this site to its
full potential for the bene?t of Northern and Southern Africa.
The realization of the interconnection of DRC to the Northern
countries  would  mark  the  beginning  of  an  interconnected
African  Grid.  The  Zambia-Tanzania-Kenya  Inter-connector
would  also  facilitate  the  interconnection  to  Eastern  Africa.
Africa can thereby utilize the diversity in resources and time
differentials for the economic dispatch of the generating units.
F.  SAPP Membership Review
A special Documentation Review Working Group (DRWG)
was set up to review the SAPP documents so as to consider
admitting Independent Power Producers (IPP) and Independent
Transmission Companies (ITC) into SAPP. The proposed new
composition of the Executive Committee is indicated in Fig. 1.
The proposed representation is as follows. One  representative  from  each  operating  member,  one
from each non operating member, one from each ITC,
and one from each IPP.
•    Each member will carry one vote.
•    Chairmanship will be restricted to the Chief Executive
Of?cers (CEOs) from government-owned power utilities
that are operating members.The  overall  proposed  restructuring  of  SAPP  is  shown  in
Fig. 2. The restructuring of SADC has necessitated this. Also
as SAPP is moving toward competitive markets, the Markets
Subcommittee has been introduced.
III.   CENTRAL AFRICAN POWER POOL (CAPP), THE
ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL AFRICAN STATES
(ECCAS), AND THE NEW PARTNERSHIP FOR AFRICA’S
DEVELOPMENT (NEPAD)
A.  CAPP
CAPP is a very new subregional institution, created in Braz-
zaville on 12 April 2003 under the auspices of the ECCAS.
CAPP presently is the focal point for discussions on regional
power  markets;  member  states  of  ECCAS  rely  upon  CAPP
for technical analysis of proposals for power sharing between
member states.
1)  Mission and Vision:  CAPP is assigned to: 1) promote
power policies; 2) promote studies and construction of commoninfrastructures and the organization of energy exchanges and the
related services in ECCAS; and 3) develop regional power man-
agement and trading arrangements in Central Africa. 