Fig. 1. System organization.syntactic method is that it does not require any segmentation ofthe image whatsoever.
 Since segmentation is a prime source of error in HCR systems, this feature alone is important enough to support further adoption of this method.  This method, however, is predictably lacking when it comes to recognizing non-Latin handwritten characters, particularly Bengali characters.  The main difﬁculty with the recognition of Bengali handwritten characters is the vast variation in handwriting.  Many factors account for the diversity in Bengali handwriting styles; among others are the regional origin of the writers, their educational level, and their profession.  In fact, different circumstances such as stress, fatigue, and joy affect the handwriting process of any individual.  In this paper, a new algorithm to identify various strokes of Bengali handwritten characters is proposed.  It is a curve-ﬁtting-based algorithm, which helps recognize various strokes of different patterns (e.g., line and quadratic curve) with high accuracy, as can be seen in the achieved results.  Fig. 1 depicts a high-level overview of our proposed modiﬁed syntactic method (MSM) system, which consists of four main components.  In the reference characters database component, individual characters, which are provided by different authors, are scanned, preprocessed, and then stored in the reference characters database in a 48 × 48 matrix format.  In the stroke generation component, the reference character is broken into its primitive strokes such as curves and straight lines.  The curva- ture analysis and string generation component implements our proposed curvature analysis algorithm to differentiate between curves and lines and generates the appropriate string consisting of the numeric codes of each stroke that uniquely identiﬁes a character from its structural representation.  Finally, the string 0018-9456/$25. 00 © 2007 IEEE2624 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INSTRUMENTATION AND MEASUREMENT, VOL. 56, NO. 6, DECEMBER 2007 matching and character recognition component applies the dy- namic programming paradigm to recognize the character.  The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Some closely related works are presented in Section II. An overview of the syntactic method is given in Section III. The proposed recog- nition process is explained in Section IV. Section V describes the experimental results. 

