Fig. 1 Block diagram of a) an OFDM and b) a single carrier transmission system with frequency domain equalization  bits on the individual sub-carriers is adapted to the shape of the transfer function of the radio channel. Modulator B optimizes simultaneously both, the distribution of bits and the distribution of signal power with respect to frequency.
 This recovers frequency diversity and  improves the BER performance.    The performance of OFDM can be improved  significantly by using different modulation schemes for the  individual sub-carriers.  The modulation schemes have to be  adapted to the prevailing channel transfer function.  Each  modulation scheme provides a trade off between spectral  efficiency and the bit error rate.  The spectral efficiency can  be maximized by choosing the highest modulation scheme  that will give an acceptable (BER).  In a multipath radio  channel, frequency selective fading can result in large  variation in the received power of each carrier.   The paper is organized as follows: In section II the fixed  and adaptive OFDM transmitters are described.  A  description of a single carrier system with frequency domain  equalization in section III is followed by simulation results in  section IV.  II. ADAPTIVE OFDM TRANSMISSION  The block diagram of the OFDM transmitter used is shown  in Fig. 1. Binary data is fed to a modulator which generates  complex symbols on its output.  The modulator either uses a  fixed signal alphabet (QAM) or adapts the signal alphabets  of the individual OFDM sub-carriers.  Both, signal alphabets  and power distribution can be optimized corresponding to  the channel transfer function.  Propagation measurements of  radio channels with fixed antennas show that the transfer  function varies very slowly with time.  Because of this  reason, it is assumed that the instantaneous channel transfer  function can be estimated at the receiver and can be  communicated back to the transmitter.  The third block  transforms the symbols into time-domain using inverse fast  Fourier transform (IFFT) at the transmitter.  The next block  inserts the guard interval. 

