Figure 1.  Generic Intelligent Enterprise Architecture
00 ©2010 IEEE  Figure 1.  Generic Intelligent Enterprise Architecture  CRM (Customer Relationship Management) serves to  understand, maintain and improve evolving customer needs.   ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) addresses issues of supply  chain efficiency and back office optimization.  EAI (Enterprise  Application Integration) aims at the integration across islands  of functionality, by not only providing connectivity and  communication, but through the orchestrated functioning of all  enterprise sub-systems.  EKM (Enterprise Knowledge  Management) is a broad area whose ultimate objective is to  inject knowledge into business processes, enable reuse of  human expertise and to create system artifacts with  rudimentary intelligence.     Intelligent Enterprise is therefore:  • agile －It can launch a production order very rapidly  after, for instance, closing a Web-based purchase.   • adaptive, self-regulating, self-optimizing －It can adjust  key business parameters (revenue, profit, cost) to the  short-term, changing business climate.  • with fuzzy borders, mesh-like structure －It can  restructure and scale the organization to fit dynamic  needs.  As in outsourcing or complete outsourcing, for  example.  •  selfaware, aware of the markets and able to learn from  them and adapt to them －It can deal with internal  inefficiencies, bottlenecks and latencies and coordinate  them with perceived market changes, for example,  knowing the level of goods being produced, correlating  this information with the market niche real-time  situation, and jumping quickly into a price reduction  campaign on the Web.  • able to morph into new and better forms －this is a  long-term process in which we may not even guess  what the form will finally look like.  It will include not  only adjustments of the business and operational  parameters, but also major structural changes; deciding  for mega-merge or drastic resizing while changing the  industry branch, for example.    In a very rough analogy shown in the Figure 1, we may  recognize enterprise sensors, effectors, a nervous system and  brain corresponding to those of living organisms, each with  particular functionality.  CRM provides sensing functionality;  EAI may represent nerves interconnecting ERP effectors with  CRM and EKM being dispersed across enterprise, but centrally  coordinated from the brain (company top management).  The  best current guess is that the future IE will be a hierarchically  organized, decentralized and distributed system with a high  level of self-regulating, local autonomy.  Some authors are  reporting about implementation of such systems combining  component-object technology with intelligent agents  technology to create complex adaptive systems  [1] , using Web  services as the glue for heterogeneous enterprise applications  [2]  or a wide variety of enterprise middleware technologies for  integration purposes  [3] .   III. EVOLUTION TOWARDS INTELLIGENT ENTERPRISE  One may wonder why contemporary enterprises are not  already exhibiting these features and what's preventing them  from doing so? It is very likely that the uncoordinated  development of the above mentioned domains by several  fiercely competing vendors －each lacking a holistic view or  suitable integration framework (as is IE architecture, for  example) －are possible causes for the corporations in the  world having spent approximately 900 billion dollars (est.  between 1998 and 2003) on enterprise software that is not used  very effectively today [Financial Times, Dec.  5, 2001]. Two  thirds of that amount was spent on "custom-built" programs  known as the "bridges".      Therefore it seems likely that those who will be able to  solve the challenging problems of interoperability, cost- effectiveness and reflectivity (reduced latency) may claim that  they have entered into an IE-morphing Phase. 

