Figure 2.  Segment of computer ontology
 The seller agent is in  charge of receiving processed request from different buyer  agents.  Through communication protocol defined in the  product ontology, the seller agent knows user needs, and  retrieves wanted products matching up with customer wishes.   In this application, the seller agent is responsible for  communication with buyer agent and retrieves product from  database.  In these operations, the product ontology carries  two tasks: communication protocol and enhancing retrieving  precision.   C. Product ontology  In order to maintain a conversation, agents must have a  common language.  The product ontology is established as a  kind of communication language,which contains the main  concepts owning to the domain we are dealing with. These  concepts are the ones the buyer agent utilizes to indicate the  customer’s preferences to the seller agent, and the ones the  seller agent utilize to search exact product.   A product ontology related to the computer product is  shown in Fig.2. This ontology shows how a computer is  composed of by several elements: monitor, keyboard, mouse,  motherboard, CPU, etc. (Fig.2)  It also generates an OWL file with designed ontology’s  description.  Fig.3 shows the segment of computer ontology  in OWL Lite format with a membership implemented by  Protégé 2000, which is compatible with JADE platform.    Fuzzy information (e.g., relationship between product  demand and supply, delivery time, etc.) is an important part  of the information that needs to be communicated between  partners in e-commerce.  Unfortunately, traditional ontology  formalisms have no consistent support for uncertainty, thus  providing no means of ensuring semantic consistency with  respect to issues of uncertainty or data quality. Figure 2.  Segment of computer ontology  D. Algorithm for formation of fuzzy customer demands’  ontology  Fuzzy classification decision tree learning algorithm [9]  (Fig.3) is a top-down multilevel ontology (concept hierarchy)  guided search in a hypothesis space of decision trees. Recall  that the decision tree algorithm recursively selects at each  step, an attribute from a set of candidate attributes based on  an information gain ratio criterion and membership between  concepts.  A set of candidate attributes to choose from for  growing the tree rooted at that node.  In our case, each  attribute has associated with a hierarchically structured  taxonomy in which there are many possible values of the  attribute. 

