Figure. 5. Nitrogen Oxide formation summary
 A change in  injection timing may also be manifested by a change to the  operating map from which control parameters are specified-  an active system response.  In other words, because the  injection pulsewidth is typically longer with biodiesel (due to  its lower heating value) and most engine control systems use  pulsewidth as an input to the calibration map (which controls  parameters such as injection timing), the changed injection  pulsewidth may change other controlled parameters (in spite  of the same engine speed and torque).    The elimination of a passive system response would  require a substantial design change to the system component  being affected.  In the example of bulk modulus manifesting an  earlier injection timing of biodiesel, this response could be  designed out of the system by employing common-rail fuel  system.  The manifestation of an active system response,  however, is rather arbitrary.  Tat et al. [51], for example,  observe an advance in injection timing as injector pulsewidth  increases.  Such system responses make it difficult to quantify  specific reasons that may cause differences in NO emissions  between biodiesel- and diesel-fuelled engines and likely  contribute to the variations in NO emissions that are reported  in the literature.    III.SUMMARY The major factors that seem to contribute to changes in NO  emissions between biodiesel and petroleum diesel fuel are  provide in a summary fashion in Fig. 5.  A “shaded bold box”  connecting two parameters suggests that an increase (or  advance) in the lower order parameter increases (or advances)  the higher order parameter.  For example, a “non-shaded bold  box” line connects radiation heat transfer to post-flame gas  temperature; that is, an increase in radiation heat transfer  decreases post-flame gas temperature.   A lower order parameter that is “dashed box” indicates that  such a parameter is higher with biodiesel than with petroleum  diesel.  For example, fuel-bound oxygen is given as dashed  box; indicating that biodiesel has higher fuel bound oxygen  than the petroleum diesel.  For some lower order parameters,  either through reported uncertainty in the literature or no  found literature discussing the topic, the relative differences  between biodiesel and petroleum diesel are not known.  In  these cases, the lower order parameters are given as dashed  boxes.  Thermodynamically, adiabatic flame temperature is a  function of heating value and stoichiometric air/ fuel ratio. 

