Figure  I: Software Architecture Optimization Process 
Development of 
object-style  architecture  and  consider  public  enthusiasm  for 
object-orientedness by the object-oriented software framework. 
Component based software engineering movement is also to be 
established. 
Popularization      phase:      2000-present    In    this    phase    is 
characterized       by       production-quality,      commercialized, 
supported  along  with  marketed  versions  of  the  technology. 
Service    oriented    architecture,    agent-based    architectures, 
specific  languages;  tools  and  development  environments  are 
also established .Web based architecture platform which are IT 
connected are also established. 
ACME/IEEE  transaction  on  software  engineering 
provides  information  about  software  architecture  which  is  a 
part in software design
" Software architecture of a program or computer system is 
the  structure  or   structures  of  the  system,  which  comprise 
software components, the externally visible properties of those 
components, and the relationships among them" Bengtson et al. 
2004 [8] " 
We  found  that  analyzed  definitions are  not  supported  by  8 
papers,  5   papers   are   not   providing   any   definition  at   all. 
Remaining  three  papers  provide  definitions,  but  these  were 
dropped. The   main   aim   of   the   optimization   task   is   typically 
maximize   the  quality  of  software-architecture  under  given 
constraints. Define the quality  of software architecture directly 
by  the  Software  experts  is  not  possible.  But  it  is  related  to  a 
number  of  system  attributes,  called  quality  Attributes  .The 
schematic   diagram   of   Software   architecture   optimization 
process as shown below. First,  the  process  input  is  architecture  representation  that 
describes  the  optimization  of  Software  architecture.  Second, 
the  subcategory  degrees  of  freedom  describe  changes  of  the 
architecture    which    are    considered    as    variables    in    the 
optimization. Third, the  subcategory  quality  evaluation  can  be 
used to  describe  the  architecture  quality  evaluation procedures 
.It   is   used   to   make   up   the   objective   function(s)   of   the 
optimization  process. 