Fig. 4: Proposed coding scheme
Fig. 3: Coinparison of fractal coding using a Haar-wavelet and a  QMF-wavelet (24-tabs) using varying prediction depths.   Figure 3 compares the results of a fractal coding where the  prediction depth was varied (only the lower frequency part  of the wavelet subtree was predicted, the high frequency  part was set to zero). For fractal coding in the spatial  domain (corresponding to the Haar-wavelet) the prediction  of all range block wavelet coefficients is useful.  Using  smooth wavelets however, the coding performance will  decrease if too many coefficients are predicted.   3. PROPOSED CODLNG SCHEME  The previous results can be resumed as follows: Fractal  coding should be done in the wavelet domain using  biorthogonal or QMF wavelets.  Domain blocks should be  made up of an integer number of range blocks to allow an  S 16-07-2 unconstrained luminance transformation.  These two  aspects lead to a coding gain of 1 dB compared to spatial  domain fractal coding.  The best prediction of wavelet  coefficients can be achieved if only the lower frequency  coefficients of a wavelet subtree are predicted.  These  results lead to our proposed coding scheme shown in fig 4.  Fig. 4: Proposed coding scheme  The image to be encoded is decomposed with a discrete  wavelet transform (DWT).  The DC-coefficients are  encoded using a DPCM followed by an entropy coder.  In  the beginning all wavelet subtrees are set to zero.  During  the encoding these trees are extended using an entropy  constrained selection criterion for every node of the  wavelet decomposition tree.  Each node of the tree has three  possible states: its four child nodes may be set to zero  (which is the initial state), they may be set to their  quantized values, or they may be described through a  fractal prediction using four scaled coefficients from the  next coarser frequency level (see fig. 5). For the encoding  of the quantized wavelet coefficients for each level an  adaptive arithmetic coder is used. Fig. 5: Each node of a wavelet subtree inay be followed by a  zerotree (left), four quantiz,ed coefficients (middle) or four  fractally predicted coefficients (right) which are obtained from  four scaled coefficients of the next coarser frequency scale.  The fractal codes consist of two parts: The quantized  scaling factor which again is entropy coded and the index  of the codebook, which describes the position in the next  coarser frequency level.  For each set of four coefficients  the codebook is centered at the corresponding position of  the node in the next coarser frequency level, which is the  position with maximum correlation. 

