Fig.2. TDD downlink dominant system overivew
 The predictions are performed  regularly, so that the mobile is able to make a  decision on which modulation level to prefer  for each SNR value.  This decision only  involves a table lookup, which is matching the  SNR to the required BER. The mobile’s  decisions are collected in a buffer before  transmitting its contents to the base station via  the control uplink channel.  The final decision  on the choice of the downlink modulation is  made by the base station, which signals its  decision to the mobile, which in turn prepares  for reception accordingly.   Since we use a TDD system, the downlink  channel can be estimated through analysis of  the uplink transmission, but since we assume  an assymmetric traffic, this would require  frequent transmission of pilot signals in the  uplink.  We therefore propose that that the  estimator and predictor of the downlink quality  should be placed in the mobile in this type of  system.  Although the traffic in the uplink  doesn’t require much transmission time, its  quality needs to be guaranteed.  For this reason  the uplink modulation is also adapted to the  channel conditions.  The total system is  schematically described in Figure 2.  FDD system for symmetric trafjc  9  A different scenario would be that of a  high, symmetric, traffic load.  This would  require equal resources in both the uplink and  the downlink.  A natural way to accomplish  such symmetric resource distribution is throudh  Frequency Division Duplex, a counterpart to  the TDD system described previously.  In FDD,  the uplink and downlink channels are  independent, acting on separate frequencies, so  they can transmit simul-taneously without  affecting each other.  In this case, we have two  different channels.  Their characteristics need to  be estimated and pre-dicted to make the  adaptive modulation work efficiently.   The complexity and frequency of the  predictor parameter updating is a topic for  further research, but it would probably require  considerable computations. 

