Fig.3.FDD symmetric system overview 
 A  different  scenario  would  be  that  of  a high,   symmetric,  traffic   load.   This   would 
require  equal  resources  in  both  the  uplink  and 
the  downlink.  A  natural  way  to  accomplish 
such symmetric resource distribution  is throudh 
Frequency  Division  Duplex,  a  counterpart  to 
the TDD system described  previously.  In  FDD, 
the    uplink    and    downlink    channels    are 
independent,  acting on separate frequencies, so 
they   can   transmit   simul-taneously   without 
affecting  each  other. In this case, we have  two 
different channels.  Their characteristics need to 
be   estimated   and   pre-dicted   to   make   the 
adaptive modulation work efficiently. 
The   complexity   and   frequency  of  the 
predictor   parameter   updating   is  a  topic  for 
further  research,  but  it  would  probably  require 
considerable  computations.  For this reason,  the 
adaptor  is  proposed  to  be  located  at  the  base 
station. the predictor  has also been  moved  to the  base 
Fig.3.FDD symmetric system overview 
station,  since there  is  a  potential  advantage  in 
providing  the  base  station  with  the  downlink 
SNR  information:  If  the  SNR  information  is 
known  to  the  base  station,  it  can  control  the 
different   connections   more   efficiently.   The 
price to be paid for this is an increase  in  traffic 
on   the   control   uplink   channel  due  to  the 
necessity     of    transferring    the     estimated 
downlink SNRs from the mobile’s  estimator to 
the base station’s predictor. 
Thus the  base  station  decides on  both  the 
uplink  and  downlink  modulation  formats,  and 
signals the result to the mobile over the control 
downlink channel. 
111. Experiment 
To evaluate the proposed system solutions, 
a  simulation  series  was  conducted,  assuming 
one  base   station   transmitting   to  a   mobile 
terminal.  This  is,  of  course,  a  simpli-fication 
which implies that there will  be no  interference 
from  other  users.  We   also  assume  that  the 
channel   conditions   are   known   for   a   few 
milliseconds  ahead  in  time.  Moreover,  perfect 
synchronisation  and  transmission  at a  constant 
maximum    amplitude,     regardless     of    the 
modulation     alphabet,     is     assumed.     The 
experiment is applicable to both TDD and FDD 
systems,  provided  that accurate pre-dictions  of 
the channel conditions exist. 
