Fig. 2. Con
 On the other hand, SystemC asks the status  Simulink with the command get_param to synchronize both  simulators.    IV. JPEG COMPRESSION ALGORITHM  The JPEG encoder consists of modules for color  converting, DCT (Discrete Cosine Transformation),  quantizing, and encoding [7].  The DCT processes two- dimensional still images as a combination of two-dimensional  frequency components to compress image data.   The JPEG encoder requires repetitive DCT calculations  which are time consuming.  Therefore, DCT calculation was  selected as a target for replacing by hardware.  The JPEG  software is used in the experiment and based on the source  program distributed by the independent JPEG group (IJG)  [8].  We extracted the minimum set of the JPEG encoder  functions and prepared the SW modules by SystemC in  advance.  The RGB format images were used in this  experiment.  - RGB-YCbCr color conversion:  A 16*16 RGB image is  converted into four 8*8 blocks of Y (luminosity) and two 8*8  blocks of Cr and Cb (color difference).  - Calculation of DCT coefficient: Two-dimensional DCT  coefficient F(u,v) corresponding to each Y, Cr and Cb are  obtained using one-dimensional DCT calculation twice using  the formula shown in Figure2.  - Quantizer: Each DCT coefficient is divided by the  corresponding value in the quantization table to remove high- frequency ingredients.  - Huffman encoder: DCT coefficient information is  compressed and the JPEG picture form is edited by adding a  quantization table, frame header, etc.   In this chain, we have made many calculations. Fig. 2. Con figuration of JPEG encoder including DCT    V. RESULTS  SystemC is an open source simulator . Its language  represents an extension by classes of the directed language  object C ++ for the description of digital systems. It allows  the description level RTL, as it is the system level (SystemC  2. 0 and the later versions) for the systems implemented in  software, hardware or the combination of both.  A SystemC  model can be compiled, executed and debugged by using the  standard tools of C++ programming.  Compared with other  languages of hardware description such as VHDL and  Verilog, SystemC supports a large number of description  domains which allow it to supply a specification of the  system at high levels of abstraction and with a better speed of  simulation. 

