Fig.3 Block Diagram Of The Control Board
Interface modules, Wireless
colour camera transmitting both audio and video signals, 434
Mhz and 315 Mhz wireless RF module, Three Stepper motors
and drive circuits, Ultrasonic sensor module, RS232 interface
module,     Wireless     Operation     Range     –     200     meters
approximately, Power Supply – 12 V-DC.Configuration:  3-wheel,  front  wheel  drive,  rear  wheel
steer, Dimensions: 200 mm  X 315 mm in area, 185 mm tall,
3.5  kg  weight,  Wheel  size:  5"  diameter, Drive  Motor:  12  V-
DC stepper motor with current 1.6 A.
3. Hardware EnvironmentThis section provides a brief overview about the system
and general description of the microcontroller, sensors, motors
and power supply. The client monitors and controls the Soft-i-
Robot  in  a  remote  workspace  through  internet.  The  peer  to
peer link is established between client and server PC [1]. The
command given by the client is received by the server, which
communicates  with  the  robot  through  a  wireless  link.  The
Radio Frequency receiver receives the control signals and the
signals are fed to the PIC16F877 microcontroller.A.       Block Diagram Description
The  block  diagram  of  the  control  board  is  shown  in
Fig.3. The control board is mounted on the body of the robot.
It consists of a microcontroller (µc) which acts as the brain of
the  robot.  The  microcontroller  is  interfaced  with  the  sensors
such  as  temperature,  humidity  and  flame.  The  ultrasonic
transmitter  and  receiver  module  measures  the  distance  of  the
obstacle  from  the  robot  and  transmits  to  the  server.  The
robot’s  movements  is  achieved  with  two  stepper  motors,
which include forward, reverse, left and right turns. The third
stepper motor is used for camera rotation. The power to drive
the robot and its sensory subsystems is achieved with the aid
of  a  12  V  battery  pack.  Soft-i-Robot  receives  and  transmits
signals from and to the client and server through the internet,
proving that the streaming technology-based approach greatly
improves the sensibility of robot tele-operation [2].
