Fig .2: TAM Architecture 
The   signal   connected   to   the 
WRCK  terminal  is  a  dedicated  clock  used  to  operate 
IEEE 1500 functions. 
3         TEST   ACCESS   MECHANISM   (TAM)   AND 
WRAPPER 
The design of test access mechanism (TAM)[4] and test 
wrapper  is  of  critical  importance  in  terms  of  system 
integration    since    they    directly    impact    hardware 
overhead,  test  time,  and  tester  data  volume.  The  main 
issues  in  this  context  are  wrapper  optimization,  core 
assignment  to  TAM  wires,  sizing  of  the  TAMs,  and 
TAM  wire  routing.  There  are  two  important  concepts 
related  to  TAM,  viz.  test  pattern  source  and  sink,  and 
core wrapper. The test pattern source is responsible for generating the test vectors or test stimuli for the desired 
core  under  test.  The  test  pattern  sink  compares  the 
fault-free  response  to  the  faulty  response  of  the  core 
under test. The test pattern source and sink can be built 
on-chip  or  off-chip.  There  are  several  ways  to  design 
and  implement  a  TAM[5].  Some  of  the  common  TAM 
architectures are: 1) daisy chained TAMs (that use serial 
shifting of test data); 2) bussed TAMs (based on use of 
complex  protocols);  3)  direct  access  TAMs  (for  cores 
with  many  inputs  and  outputs);  and  4)  multiplexer 
(MUX)-based  direct  access  TAMs.In  this  paper,  MUX-
based direct access TAM architecture, as shown in Fig. 
2  is  implemented.  The  TAM  is  used  to  drive  the  test 
vectors from the test source[5][6], that is, from the fault 
simulator   to   the   desired   core   under   test   and   to 
transport  the  test  response  from  the  core  back  to  the 
fault simulator. The selection of the core in the SoC was 
implemented  as  part  of  the  TAM  architecture.  The 
width  of  the  TAM  by  the  core  that  has  the  maximum number  of  input/output  (I/O)  pins  within  the  SoC  is 
determined. There are other issues for consideration at 
this  phase,  viz.  the  bandwidth  of  the  TAM  versus  the 
cost of extra wires needed for its implementation, total 
test   time   depending   on   the   TAM   bandwidth,   test 
vectors from the source, and ultimately test data for the 
individual   core.   