Figure 2. The SLA management lifecycle z The Service Development stage. In this stage, service providers identify the customers’ needs, develop their services consistent with the specifications on services provisioning and define the SLA template.
 According to TM Forum, the  lifecycle of SLA management maybe as follows [3]:  z The Product/Service Development stage.  This stage  consists of the identification of the customer needs  and the network capacities.  From that, service  templates are prepared.  z The Negotiation & Sales stage where an SLA is  negotiated with a customer.  Resource reservation is  also used to check with the planning if the SLA can  be supported.  z The Provisioning stage.  This stage consists of the  resource provisioning (i.e. network and service  provisioning) and the service activation.  z The Assurance stage which is in charge of monitor  validates and reports the SLA, detect SLA violations  and handle them.  z The Assessment stage composed of two parts.   Assessment with the customer (to check its  satisfaction and to identify evolution of its  requirements) and internal operator assessment (to  check the overall service quality, key problems et al.).   Specific tasks in the stages of the lifecycle above- mentioned are for the field of telecommunications. figure 2.     Figure 2. The SLA management lifecycle  z The Service Development stage. In this stage, service  providers identify the customers’ needs, develop  their services consistent with the specifications on  services provisioning and define the SLA template.  To be integrated in SOSS, services should comply  with some specifications on services interface and  data exchange format. SLA template is the baseline of  negotiation and service ordering between service  providers and customers.  z The Service Contract Formation stage.  In this stage,  service provides register their services, customers  searching services for their needs and put forward an  order request once they find appropriate services  with consistent functions, acceptable SLAs and  charges, services providers deal with the orders and  confirm the contracts.  Web-based accessing channel  is provided by SOSS to both service providers and  customers for those processes mentioned above.  z The Services Monitoring stage.  This stage consists of  services activation, QoS monitoring, SLA violations  detecting, performance data collecting and report  generating.  SOSS is in charge of all these processes.  z The Services Assessment and Feedback stage. 

