Fig. 3. Extending an upper ontology.
 As [19] highlighted, this was not a straightforward task.  If the deployment of MAS technology becomes widespread within the power arena and utilities demand inter-operation be- tween systems from different vendors/developers, the cost of the creation of multiple mappings between different ontologies may be prohibitive.  One alternative, which Catterson et al. mooted in [19], would be to create an upper ontology for power engineering applica- tions.  The upper ontology would contain the basic concepts of the domain.  While not detailed enough for speciﬁc applications, the ontology would ensure that different multi-agent systems would employ the same basic representation for common con- cepts, such as “substation,”“transformer,”“conducting equip- ment,” and how they are related.  Agent developers could use the upper ontology as a starting point for developing ontologies for speciﬁc applications.  The property of inheritance would ensure that different multi-agent systems would share the same repre- sentation for common concepts, reducing the complexity of on- tology mapping should it be required.  This is shown in Fig. 3. Currently, there is no standard upper ontology for power sys- tems.  However, existing power engineering standards, such as IEC 61850, CIM, and IEC 61400-25 [23], may provide data models that can be used as a foundation for an upper ontology. 1756 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON POWER SYSTEMS, VOL. 22, NO. 4, NOVEMBER 2007 Fig. 3. Extending an upper ontology.  Fig. 4. Class hierarchy of part of an upper ontology based on CIM.  Fig. 4 shows part of an upper ontology based on CIM. CIM provides a structured class hierarchy of many of the fundamental concepts in power engineering, especially in the description of power system plant and topology. The upper ontology in  Fig. 4 is not a simple port of the CIM data model. In order to preserve the meaning of the inheritance relationship, some aspects of the CIM data model have been modiﬁed.  For example, in CIM, all classes inherit from the Naming class. 

