Fig. 2. Local model based controller design. (LLM:local linear model, LLC: local linear controller)
 This algorithm iteratively splits up the input space into regions where linear models are estimated.  3. LOCAL MODEL CONTROL DESIGN In this section, the controller design procedure for local models will be described.  Then, the design pro- cedure of conventional controllers will be brieﬂy dis- cussed and the internal model control design proce- dure will be explained in more detail.  Both design techniques can be extended to local model systems. Fig. 2. Local model based controller design. (LLM: local linear model, LLC: local linear controller) There are generally two control design approaches for local model networks that can be pursued, the linearization and the local model based controller de- sign (Fink et al., 1999). The linearization based de- sign is a general approach and can be utilized for any nonlinear model.  Here, the model is linearized for each sampling instant at the current, dynamic op- erating point and subsequently a linear controller is designed online based on that linearized model (Sousa et al., 1997).  For the local model based approach, linear controllers are designed ofﬂine for each lo- cal model separately and later merged to one oper- ating point dependent controller by weighting the lo- cal linear controllers according to the actual operat- ing point (Xie and Rad, 2000).  This approach is pur- sued in this paper, see Fig. 2. The local model based concept is also called parallel distributed compensa- tion (PDC).  For this approach, powerful methods for proving closed-loop stability via solving linear matrix inequalities (LMIs) are available for local model con- trol design (Wang et al., 1996).  The interpolation of the controller parameters closely follows the idea of model based adaptive control or the gain-scheduling control approach (Hunt and Johansen, 1997).  3.1 Conventional PI and PID Control Design The standard controllers in process industry are linear PI and PID controllers (Isermann, 1981) G PI = q 0 +q 1 z −1 1− z −1 ,G PID = q 0 +q 1 z −1 +q 2 z −2 1− z −1 . (7) These controllers can manually be tuned by changing the values of the controller parameters q i .  For the PID controller, for instance, three parameters have to be tuned.  This can be a very lengthy procedure since the inﬂuence of the controller parameters on the control performance cannot easily be described.  Also, the parameters itself do not have a physical interpretation which makes the tuning non-intuitive. 

