Figure 1. SAPP Structure
04 US c ikWh  I  I Off-peak: 0. 016 US ckWh  I Difference: 0. 024 US c kWh  Namibia I Peak: 0. 033 US c /kWh  Off-peak: 0. 013 US c /kWh  Difference: 0. 020 US c /kWh  The Southem African Power Pool (SAPP) is a regional body that was  formed in 1995 through a Southem African Development Community  (SADC) treaty to optimize use of available energy resources in the  region and support one another during emergencies.  The power  pool's, Co-ordination Centre is located in Harare, and comprises  twelve SADC member countries represented by their respective  electric power utilities.   SAPP is managed by the decision-making that occurs in the  hierarchical structured committees illustrated in Figure 1. Reporting  to the Energy Ministers of SADC is the Executive Committee that is  composed of the Chief Executives of the participating utilities.   Reporting to the Executive is the Management Committee, which is  composed of senior managers from the transmission system operations  and energy trading divisions of each utility. Figure 1. SAPP Structure  The Management Committee collates the proceedings of the sub-  committees of Operating, Planning and Environmental, summarizes  the proposals and recommendations and presents bi-annually the  report to the Executive Committee. In the SAPP proceedings of 1999,  the recommendation from the Operating Sub-committee to introduce  a competitive market for shon term energy trading was submitted and  approved.  The design and rules of the short-term energy market is  now summarised.  The results of more than two years of trading  activity have been anaIysed and are also summarised.   Design of the Short Term Energy Market 3. 2  3.1 Case Study for Southern African Power Pool  UPEC 2004-T. J. Hammons  27 The goal of standard market design is to establish an efficient and  robustly competitive wholesale etectricity marketplace for the benefit  of consumers [SI. This could be done through the development of  consistent market mechanisms and efficient price signals for the  procurement and reliable transmission of electricity combined with the  assurance of fair and open access to the transmission system. 

