Figure 1   Comprehensive model of KM adoption and practice.
The reason 
could  be  that  knowledge  management  has  been  deeply 
embedded in the company's daily operation and a number 
of  problems  have  been  solved  in  the  past  few  years. 
Therefore,  the  employees  have  been  used  to  the  concept 
and   practice   of   knowledge   management,   and   some 
concerns regarding the adoption and practice of knowledge management  in  other  companies  would  no  longer  be  an 
issue in this company.4.3 Comprehensive model 
Figure 1 presents the comprehensive model of knowledge 
management   adoption   and   practice   which   has   been 
developed based on the conceptual framework as described 
in Section 2.3 using the factors and variables identified in 
the exploratory study. Accordingly, this paper suggests that 
the  adoption  and  practice  of  knowledge  management  can 
be   observed   as   the   model   of   External   Factor   —> 
Perception  —>  Attitude  —>  KM  Practice  —>  Perceived 
Performance.  The  framework  and  the  associated  factors 
have  been  applied  effectively  in  the  previous  studies  for 
innovation   adoption   and   applications.   Moreover,   the 
comprehensive model along with the factors and variables 
are relatively specific to KM adoption and practice in the 
context of life insurance companies in Taiwan.4.4 Research implications 
As  presented  in  Figure  1,  the  comprehensive  combined 
model of KM adoption and practice is particularly unique 
since  it  is  developed  based  on  both  the  literature  and  the 
data  collected  from  the  interviewees  of  six  life  insurance 
companies  which  vary  in  their  backgrounds.  This  model 
can serve as a research model for proposition development 
and further investigation. For example, a causal modeling 
technique  (Barclay,  Higgins  &  Thompson,  1995)  can  be 
conducted  to  test  the  model.  Alternatively,  parts  of  this 
model can be examined separately. To illustrate, the role of 
perceived usefulness can be tested to examine its impact on 
the  adoption  and  practice  of  knowledge  management; 
conversely, how the external factors affect complexity can 
be studied to identify the potential initiatives and obstacles 
for  people  to  adopt  and  apply  knowledge  management  in 
organizations. 
This  model  also  indicates  the  processes  and  the  related 
activities  involved  in  knowledge  management,  as  well  as 
the perceived performance that  the practice  of knowledge 
management  is  expected  to  bring  for  the  organization. 
However,  further  research  is  required  to  investigate  the 
influence    of    KM    practice    on    the    organizational 
performance. 
In  terms  of  managerial  implications,  the  comprehensive 
model shows a practical mold of knowledge management 
adoption and practice in the life insurance companies.