Fig.2: directed graph reflect the dependency between modules
After handling the module the set will need to be
updated then the steps will  be repeated to  select another
module to be handled. Figure 1  show these steps.IJ.B HEURISTIC MODEL ENCOMPASSING RIPPLE
EFFECT (HRE)
To keep track on the ripple effect,  and to be sure that the
change propagation  in  a  way that  keep the  dependency
between module consistent, a model is constructed to choose
the  module which will  be traced from a set  of affected
modules. This model depends on the graph representation and
the heuristic function.
The following steps show how this model works:
1- Define the set ofaffected modules, the set will look like:
{(modulel,  mark,,  costl),  (module2,  mark2,  cost2)...
(module., mark., cost-) ......
Where:
module, The ith  module in the set mark, Number of marks
assign to the ith module, initially set to 1  costs The cost assign
to the ith module, initially set to 0
These modules in the set will be in the module's neighbor.
Module neighbors set in the set of all  modules with have
direct arrow to the changed module. For example if module C
in  figure 2 is  changed then the module neighbors set will
contain A, B, D, M. All these modules will be marked as 1,
and have a cost equal to zero.
2- The cost of the module in  the set will  be changed
according to a heuristic function. The directed arrow between
two node in the graph mean that there a relation between these
two node.  The Relation  will  be association,  aggregation,
inheritance and/or invocation or any other king. Direction of
arrow reflects dependency that is which module depends on
which. For example in figure 2 the arrow between M to C
mean that module Minvoke module C.
For further information about relation and dependencies
between system modules refer to [1],[ 11]
The heuristic function that will calculate the cost depend
on:
- Number of ongoing arrows to the module (1): which mean
that many modules depend on this module, and any change to
this module will affect many modules.