Fig.1: Web Services Orchestration and Choreography
 Next, the fourth  section provides an overview of VAM and two particular  business processes are developed as Web services using  COSMOS. Finally, some conclusions are given.     2 An Overview of BPEL    The concept of Web services is to use XML defined  protocols, namely the SOAP for communication, the  WSDL for description and the Universal Description,  Discovery and Integration (UDDI) of software services  over the Internet for discovery.    Web services provide a basic one-way or  requestresponse mechanism that can be used by two  systems to communicate.  Its standards are open, cross  platform, and fully aligned with Internet standards and  technologies.  However, it is widely recognized that the  interaction of several or many Web services is often  required to create business value.  This has led to several  initiatives to create languages to express and define  business processes that coordinate Web services [8].   BPEL is an XML based language that models the  behaviour of Web services in a business process interaction.   It is a language that models both the orchestration and  choreography aspects of a business process (Fig. 1).  Orchestration refers to the actual execution of a business  process.  It controls the flow of the various activities internal  to a business process, like invocation of Web services,  messages handling, business logic and rules.  On the other  hand, choreography describes the interfaces and the  communication protocol between two or more independent  business processes.  It tracks the message sequence between  Web services in an abstract manner [9].     Fig.1: Web Services Orchestration and Choreography  BPEL seems to win the race for standardisation and  global acceptance against other competitive initiatives.      3 The COSMOS Environment    COSMOS is an integrated development environment for  the design and creation of business processes based on the  BPEL language.  The goal of COSMOS is to provide a  complete environment that would allow the user to design,  create, code, verify and deploy a business process based on  BPEL. The concept for the COSMOS deployment stems  from the evaluation findings of BPEL and existing design  tools. 

