Fig. 4: Activity Diagram of the Supply Customer Info
 It describes the structure and dynamics of the  business processes around the system.  In specific, it  concerns the identification of actors (anyone or anything  that is external to the business but interacts with it), and use  cases (a group of related workflows within the business that  provide value to the actors).  UML business modelling  results in the use case and the activity diagrams.  A use case  diagram illustrates use cases and actors for business  processes, as well asthe interactions between them.  Actors  are represented as stick figures and use cases are shown as  ovals.  An activity diagram is used to describe the workflow  through a particular use case.  It consists of action states,  activity states and transitions between them [11].  Figure 4  shows a UML high-level use case diagram of VAM. The  VAM actors are:  Provider actor: who is interested in selling agricultural  products using the VAM system, and supplies the VAM  system with information related to provider information,  and production forecast information.   Customer actor: who is interested in buying  agricultural products using the VAM system, and provides  it with information related to customer contact information  (e.g. name, address, telephone, e-mail), customer demand  information.   Transport firm actor: who is responsible for delivering  the goods after successful matching and negotiation process,  105  and provides the VAM system with transport firm  information.     Fig.3: A Use Case Diagram of VAM  According to the VAM system’s functionality, use cases  are the following:  Supply customer info: it is performed by the customer  actor, and provides contact information and demand  information to the VAM system.   Supply provider info: it is performed by the provider  actor, and provides the VAM system, firstly with contact  information and actual field information, and next with  estimated or actual production information.   Store info: it is performed by the system through  collection and storing both customers’ and providers’ given  information, in the VAM Database (DB).   Get marketing info: when this use case is executed,  VAM informs the providers about regional, national and  European market trends, and customers’ preferences of  products. 

