Figure 1.   MAS automatic negotiation protocol.  
The first phase is based on 
multi-Agent automatic negotiation whose negotiation object 
includes task starting time, task ending time and the relation 
of the tasks; The second phase is the negotiation of Agent’s 
communicating conditions whose negotiation object include 
corresponding  security  policy  and  network  service  quality
^QOS?. 
Underneath is negotiation procedure of Agent A with B 
running tasks: 
A: Can you run the task T1?( request) 
B: No, I can’t. Because I am running the task T2.(reject 
and state reasons) 
A:  Can  you  run  the  task  T1  after  completing  T2  ?
^conditional request? 
B: Yes.^commitment combine confirmation? 
In the above dialogue'when Agent A request Agent B 
to  run  task  T1,  Agent  B  rejects  and  presents  rejective 
reasons. Because of the reasons presents by Agent B, Agent A put  forth a  request  again to Agent B, and then  Agent  B 
reply Agent B with commitment. 
Agent A, B keep on the above dialogue:  
A: can you keep executing task T2  according to constant 
rate?^conditional request? 
B: I can uninterruptedly execute T2 within 5% at bit rate 
variation range.^suggestion ? 
A: I accept your suggestion. (acceptance) 
The  conditional  request  set  one  recommend,  at  the 
suggest  agent  B  make  amendment  of    agent  A  toward  bit 
rate claim, be the last agent A take of agent B'negotiation 
success  finish  upon  to  for  of  the  upper  agent  dialogue'
agent B toward agent A. 
According  to  the  top  analysis  talks  about  with  the 
correlative language behavior academic theories, we say the 
Agent    automatic    negotiation    correspondnce    in    the 
procedure  to  state  row  word  certain  for:  request,  promise, 
refuse,   advise,   counter   advise.   In   view   of   agreement  
presence  overtime  event  and  agent  unsolicited  message 
transmission,  so  increase  overtime^timeout?status  and 
inform  ^ inform ? state  row  word  that.  Communication 
protocol  engine  of  the  communication  process  state  as 
follows of the agent: 
Stateinner::=Started|  Requested  |  Accepted  |  Refused  | 
Promised  |  Informed  |  Advised  |  CAd-vised  |  Timeout  | 
Stopped 
See  Fig.1:  Agent  automatic  negotiation  protocol  can  be 
divided into information transmission layer, buffer channel 
layer and Agent negotiation  protocol layer from  bottom  to 
top,  of  which  buffer  channel  layer  C  is  one  of  the  needed 
layers     between     Agents     to     realize     asynchronous 
communication. If it will realize point-to-point synchronous 
communication  between  Agents,  it  can  do  communication 
directly through channel C. As to the description of Agent 
automatic negotiation, it mostly focus on Agent negotiation 
protocol layer, while  for  the other layers,  it only  describes 
their services and running environment in brief. In essence, 
the  function  of  Agent  negotiation  protocol  layer  is  the 
description of process. (1) The service provided by each protocol layer 
See Fig.1: a.  Information  transmission  layer:  being  in  position  to 
transmit information data between Agents in sequential way 
and correctly; 
b. Buffering channel C0 and C1 layer: providing Agent 
automatic negotiation layer with the service; c.   Agent   automatic   negotiation   protocol   layer  ?
supplying   Agent   with   credibility,   efficient   negotiation 
control and policy. 
(2)  Description  of  Agent  negotiation  protocol  layer 
functions: 
Fig.2 receive agreement on state vicissitude chart,  from 
the   view   of   agent   negotiation   starter   Among   them: 
arrowhead   direction   are   the   flow   direction   of   Agent 
information; The Recv means a certain message in roger in 
right connecting; send stand for exactness forward to some 
information; Following behind the Recv/ Send is a message 
type,  both  state  vicissitude  picture  with  state  refused  and 
accepted implication negotiatory amphi-with the result that; 
negotiation  the  rough  and  smooth,  along  with  it  show  that 
negotiatory terminal status. The  Agent  A  describe  with  Agent  B  whole  negotiation 
procedural  not  formal  as  follows:  Agent  A  first  of  all 
dispatch negotiation beg of Agent B received solicit aback, 
toward  request  message  proceed  analyses,  could  as  per 
three strain scene dispose to?the first thing, in the event of 
Agent B receivability the solicit of Agent A, those Agent B  
to Agent A dispatch take send , else dispatch thumb advise,  
down through upon, the service request block mode,  of the 
such  negotiation  scene  as  conventional  C  /  S.  the  second 
thing, Provide some Agent B can provide serve of instruct, 
but  because  of  the  restrict  of  the  resource  of  system  can't 
very  much  the  serve,  so  the  Agent  B  can  put  forward  to 
Agent A the serve promises, the Agent A handles Agent B 
the commitment of serve can proceed very much: Reject or 
accept. the third thing, The Agent B thinks after analyzing 
the  Agent  A  request  Agent  A  some  items  modification 
within request empress, can satisfy the Agent A request still, 
like  this  Agent  B  after  proceeding  Agent  A  some  items 
within  request  to  modification,  conduct  and  actions  the 
suggestion  sends  out  to  the  Agent  A.  Agent  A  for  the 
suggestion of Agent B can operation proceeding as follows: 
Accept,  reject  and  put  forward  the  counterproposal.  either 
that   of   toward   Agent   A   counterproposal,   Agent   B 
receivability, reject or set own the other one proposal for. in 
order   to   postamble   toward   consultative   demonstration, 
toward     agent     negotiation     agreement     avail     CSP 
formalization be described below of: with  PS  standing  for  negotiatory  sponsor  tenor,  PR 
express  negotiatory  take  tenor,  adopt  timeout  by  way  of 
differ  state  subaltern  overtime  event,  II  for  consultative 
interior select  ,z  for  consultative external  selection, the ? 
pass to return to calculate the son for the CSP, negotiating 
the run - time that inside affect time-out event, reset clock 
wait  for,  in  third  time  retreat  out  negotiation,  because  of 
start with stop is interactive behavior that Agent negotiation 
protocol  machine  and  Agent,  combine  can't  very  much 
negotiation protocol, the country contract gets after passing 
conceal  the  operation  the  Agent  negotiation  interactive 
procedure describe; 
Because  the  whole  Agent  on  the  basis  of  intention  of 
uniting    consults    the    agreement    automatically    (Joint 
Intention  based  Agent  Automated  Negotiation  Protocol, 
JIAANP) the one that can show for a lot of Agent process is 
woven in and erupted simultaneously mutually:  
JIAANP= | | | Pi = | | |^PS ||PR?among them ieN 
(3)  Agent  consults  the  working  environment  that  the 
protocol needs  
a.  Agent  consult  agreement  lower  floor  information 
transmission  layer  of  layer  can  is  it  is  it  spread  mistake 
travel  the  mistake  to  the  upper  strata  agreement  to  get  to 
measure      automatically.      Namely      the      information 
transmission layer has fault-tolerant ability.  
b.  The  array  of  every  part  of  one  layer  of  news 
transmitted   of   the   information   transmission   should   be 
correct.