Fig. 4: Flow chart of the proposed approach
 Since the shape of μ   is  half of a Gaussian membership, its enhanced form μ $  also assumes a  similar shape.   Proper fuzzification is attained only when the weak edge  membership values are properly enhanced over the bell- function and the overall edge quality  For this reason, certain specific fuzzy  the parameters a, b, c, and ( )  are Copyright (c) 2013 IEEE. Personal use is permitted.  For any other purposes, permission must be obtained from the IEEE by emailing pubs-permissions@ieee.org.  This article has been accepted for publication in a future issue of this journal, but has not been fully edited.  Content may change prior to final publication.  Citation information: DOI 10. 1109/TFUZZ.2013.2286418, IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems evaluated, and fuzzy entropy and edge sharpness factor are  optimized together to yield the optimal values of the four  parameters.    IIC. AN OVERVIEW OF THE ENTIRE OPTIMAL FUZZY  BASED ALGORITHM  Before introducing the fuzzy measures for developing the  mathematical model of the optimal fuzzy algorithm, a flow  chart is presented in Fig. 4 to provide an overview of the  algorithmic steps. Fig. 4: Flow chart of the proposed approach  Our approach starts by computing the USAN area for each  pixel in a test image and for that, a circular mask of 37  pixels is used, in accordance with the SUSAN principle.  The USAN area values, thus obtained, are fuzzified using  fuzzy membership functions and optimal fuzzification is  attained only after optimizing the fuzzy entropy together  with the sharpness factor of the fuzzy edge map.  Our  algorithm uses GSA as the core optimizer to attain optimal  values of the parameters that control the range and shape  of the membership curve and ultimately produce optimal  values for the fuzzy entropy and sharpness factor, which  together constitute the objective function.  Once the GSA  iterations are terminated (based on some standard stopping  criteria in evolutionary computing community, like the  exhaustion of a predefined number of objective function  evaluations), an adaptive thresholding is applied on the  optimal fuzzy edge map to attain the final edge map.  For a  colour image, the entire procedure is repeated for all three  RGB components and the resultant edge maps are  concatenated to produce the final edge map.   IID.1. FUZZY MEASURES    In our algorithm, the fuzzy measures used include different  fuzzy sharpness factors for edges.  These measures are  introduced to compute the objective function and sharpen  different edges. 

