Figure 7: Device Manufacturer holds application design scenario 
4. Apart from holding a platform for hosting and provision of 
applications,  the  MNO  also  chooses  to  have  a  technical 
department  to  develop  applications  internally.  In  this  case, 
third-party applications developers are not involved and do not 
contribute to the innovation loop (Figure 5).  5. In a slightly changed configuration of the previous scenario, 
the  MNO  not  only  takes  an  active  role  on  the  application 
stream, but also takes up the active role of marketing devices 
to the end-user and takes control of additional functionalities 
delivered  to  the  customer.  This  scenario  can  be  compared  to 
the  bundle  offers  (mobile  phone  plus  medium/long  contract), 
which  are  mobile  operators’  common  practice  across  Europe 
and South Africa (Figure 6). 6. In this scenario, although the MNO still holds the customer 
relationship    for    application    provisioning,    the    device 
manufacturer  assumes  a  more  active  role  in  the  application 
stream.  The  device  manufacturer  bundles  the  devices  with 
software  that  is  made  available  to  the  consumer  through  a 
platform  established  by  the  MNO.  In  addition,  the  MNO 
maintains  its  role  of  marketing  devices  to  the  customer  (Fig. 
7). 
7. The device manufacturer holds application provisioning, but 
as  part  of  a  deal  with  the  MNO,  the  device  manufacturer 
provides the application provisioning platform to the MNO. In 
a  nontransparent  way,  the   costumer  is  redirected  to  the manufacturer’s   platform   whenever   he   tries   to   buy   new 
software  or  use  interfaces  of  the  application.  The  MNO  still 
sells the CE device to the customer and charges him for each 
application bought or used (Figure 8). 8. Similarly to the previous scenario, the device manufacturer 
holds  application  provisioning,  but  opens  the  platform  to  the 
contribution   of   application   developers.   In   this   case,   the 
revenue  of  an  application  is  split  between  the  MNO,  the 
manufacturer and the application developer (Figure 9). 2) Discussion 
The mobile stream scenarios envisioned deliver the advantage 
of  involving  the  MNO  and  hence  leverage  the  integration  of mobile   services   and   mobile   network   functionalities   with 
consumer electronic devices. 