Figure 10: Device Manufacturer holds application provisioning without application design scenario
 In  this case a revenue share deal between the two actors could be  set up and would facilitate the deployment of technical use  cases UC 2 and UC 4.  Scenario 8 seems the least interesting  scenario, since both MNOs and manufacturers rely on  developers for the success of the platform implying a  considerable risk for the former stakeholders e.g.  Alcatel- Lucent and Nokia [9] are using this model.  In addition,  revenues would be split among three actors, potentially  leading to a revenue split not that interesting for developers.   B. CE Device Stream Scenarios  1) Description  In the CE device stream scenarios the device manufacturer  holds the customer relationship for application provisioning  and device marketing.  The device manufacturer thus sells CE  devices directly to the customer and likely also provides  applications directly to the end-user through, for example, an  application portal.  These scenarios are similar to real-life cases  of mobile handset manufacturers that hold platforms to sell  applications to device owners:  9.  The device manufacturer allows third-parties to participate  in the application design and shares revenues with them  (Figure 10). Apple’s new strategy of opening retail shops to  sell Apple devices.  Google tried it before when they launched  the G1 but it was not really a success it was different from the  traditional MNO based retail strategy. Figure 10: Device Manufacturer holds application provisioning without  application design scenario    10. In addition to the device stream, the device manufacturer  assumes the entire application stream ( Figure 11)  Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO    Figure 11: Device Manufacturer holds application provisioning scenario  2) Discussion  The technical cases UC 2 and UC 4 could be deployed taking  these two scenarios into account, since access to hardware- related APIs would be obviously facilitated. However, given  that the MNO is not involved in the application provision, the  possibilities to integrate with mobile phone functionalities  decrease. In these scenarios, the device manufacturer sells  applications directly to consumers, similarly to existing  mobile manufacturers’ platforms, such as Nokia Ovi and  Samsung Apps.  Similarly to previous scenarios, consumers  could be charged on a one-time fee or pay per usage basis.   Previous considerations regarding opening the platform to  application developers also apply to scenario 9. 

