Figure 4: MNO holds application provision scenario
 A fast way to establish  this platform could involve simply the expansion of an  existing platform to incorporate M2M applications, avoiding  high investments and risks.  Innovation is a responsibility of  the application developers/designers in this case.  It should be  mentioned that the main potential bottleneck of these  scenarios is the lack of cooperation between platform owners  and device manufacturers, preventing developers to get access  to hardware-specific APIs.  In this scenario the barriers to entry  for a tech entrepreneur (developer) are low.  MNOs in Africa  usually get a larger percentage from the revenue share.     B. Mobile Stream Scenarios    1) Description  In the mobile stream several scenarios reflecting more or less  control of the value chain by the MNO can be considered. Figure 4: MNO holds application provision scenario  3. The MNO setups an application development platform in  order to host and provide applications, holding at the same  time a marketplace to distribute applications submitted by  application developers to its customer base.  One of the  disadvantages is the MNO relies on developers’ innovation for  the success of the platform (Figure 4).   4. Apart from holding a platform for hosting and provision of  applications, the MNO also chooses to have a technical  department to develop applications internally.  In this case,  third-party applications developers are not involved and do not  contribute to the innovation loop (Figure 5).   Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO   Figure 5: MNO holds application design scenario  5.  In a slightly changed configuration of the previous scenario,  the MNO not only takes an active role on the application  stream, but also takes up the active role of marketing devices  to the end-user and takes control of additional functionalities  delivered to the customer.  This scenario can be compared to  the bundle offers (mobile phone plus medium/long contract),  which are mobile operators’ common practice across Europe  and South Africa (Figure 6).  Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO   Figure 6: MNO holds CE device marketing scenario  6.  In this scenario, although the MNO still holds the customer  relationship for application provisioning, the device  manufacturer assumes a more active role in the application  stream.  The device manufacturer bundles the devices with  software that is made available to the consumer through a  platform established by the MNO. In addition, the MNO  maintains its role of marketing devices to the customer (Fig.  7).  7. The device manufacturer holds application provisioning, but  as part of a deal with the MNO, the device manufacturer  provides the application provisioning platform to the MNO. In  a nontransparent way, the costumer is redirected to the  413 5  manufacturer’s platform whenever he tries to buy new  software or use interfaces of the application.  The MNO still  sells the CE device to the customer and charges him for each  application bought or used (Figure 8).  Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO   Figure 7: Device Manufacturer holds application design scenario    Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO   Figure 8: Device Manufacturer holds entire application stream scenario    8. 

