Figure 1: Generic Value Chain
 A business actor is a marketplace entity that encapsulates  a coherent set of roles and a stakeholder is a real-life  organisation, e.g. an individual, institution, company, etc. with  an interest in the outcome of a certain action [5].  In the context  of this paper, the following roles were considered:     Application Design: consists of the first phases of the  software life cycle and is usually taken up by a software  house or individuals.   Application Hosting: consists of hosting the software  code and the data required to run the application.  This can  occur in-house or outsourced (PaaS).   Application Provision: comprises the delivery and selling  of software to specific market segments and technical  support.   Application Usage: is the act of using application services  by end-users.   Network Equipment Development: comprises the design  and development of network equipment, implying the  ownership of the intellectual capital necessary for the  manufacturing of this equipment.   Network Equipment Integration: consists of the  provisioning of integrated network solutions to network  operators.   Mobile Access Provision: is the act of providing access to  a given network to customers.  In the context of this  report, this role was simplified and therefore also includes  backbone provision, last-mile provision and broadband  access provision and applies to internet, fixed line or  mobile services’ subscriptions.   Mobile Access Consumption: is the act of using network  access purchased from network access providers.   Consumer Electronics (CE) Device Development:  comprises the design and development of CE devices,  implying the ownership of the intellectual capital  necessary for the manufacturing of these devices.   CE Device Marketing: consists of bringing to market  consumer electronics devices to be used by consumers to  interact with applications.   CE Device Usage: is the act of purchasing and using a  consuming electronics device obtained from a CE device  marketer.     The main stakeholders considered relevant for this discussion  are:   Device manufacturer: the entity that develops and builds  CE devices or other devices considered relevant in the  M2M ecosystem, e.g. sensors, etc.   Mobile Network Operator (MNO): the entity that  provides mobile network connectivity to a device.   Application Developer: designs and develops an  application that explores the capabilities of a device or  integrates information from different sources.     This entity can be represented by an individual or an  organisation.   Application Integrator: the entity that, on one side,  provides to developers an ecosystem for hosting and  411 3  running applications, and on the other side, integrates and  provides applications in the user environment e.g.  Apps  Store and Android Market.   Consumer: the consumer holds a CE device and enabled  with a mobile access subscription makes use of an M2M  application.     All value chain scenarios considered in the next section  exhibit the same value network illustrated in Figure 1.   Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Application Stream Mobile Stream CE Device Stream Revenue Service Design   Figure 1: Generic Value Chain  .  In this figure, the value streams between roles and from and  towards the consumer are depicted.  This way, dark arrows  indicate service flows, while white arrows represent revenue  flows.  Only direct revenue flows are indicated though.  The use  cases considered in this paper privilege the access to  information stored in devices and sensors (consumer  electronics, utility meters, etc.), followed by the publication of  this information over a mobile network and potentially  combining it with mobile network operator’s contextual  information and services (customer information, location,  messaging, etc).  Therefore it was assumed that the consumer  holds a CE device (mobile phone, television, computer, set-top  box, etc) and a mobile telecommunications subscription (data  or voice subscription).  In addition, it was considered that there  are APIs made available by CE manufacturers and MNOs to  facilitate, respectively, access to and integration of  functionalities of devices and mobile networks. 

