Figure 3: Application Integrator scenario
 In addition, it was considered that there  are APIs made available by CE manufacturers and MNOs to  facilitate, respectively, access to and integration of  functionalities of devices and mobile networks.  It was not  considered relevant for this analysis to explore the actors that  assume the roles of Network Equipment Development and  Network Equipment Integration as those roles are related to  the functioning of the network and are just mentioned here to  make the value chain clear.   IV. VALUE CHAIN MODEL SCENARIOS    The scenarios presented in this section are aggregated by the  streams shown in Figure 1.  A. Application Stream Scenarios    1) Description   In the application stream two scenarios can be considered:  1.  The application developer establishes a platform for  software development, provisions and manages a direct  relationship with the customer or sells applications to MNOs  (Figure 2).  Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Application Developer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO   Figure 2: Application Developer scenario    In the first scenario, the application developer develops, hosts  and provides applications, i.e. establishes the entire platform  for application development and provision.  The application  developer collects revenues from several operators or from  only one, based on an exclusivity contract.  Alternatively or  complementary, the application developer provides  applications directly to the consumer.  While the application  developer can have two sources of revenue from distinct  stream stakeholders, there is also potential for the MNO to  collect revenues from consumers.       2. The application integrator establishes a platform for hosting  and provision of applications, but relies on application  developers to develop and publish applications on the platform  (Figure 3).  Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Application Developer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO Application Integrator   Figure 3: Application Integrator scenario  The second scenario considers an application integrator that  setups an application development platform in order to host  and provide applications (PaaS).  Through this platform a set  of APIs to interact with network devices, CE devices is  provided, in order to leverage creativity and innovation of a  developer’s community or application developers such as  ISVs or startups.  In this context, the application integrator  collects revenues from application developers using the  platform and from consumers or MNOs to whom these  412 4  applications are sold.  In both scenarios consumers have direct  access to the applications available in the platform without the  mediation of the MNO.  2) Discussions  Although selling applications directly to consumers seems a  reasonable business scenario for application developer  or  application integrators, a close cooperation with MNOs would  be beneficial to guarantee platform adoption due to their large  customer base and control over customer data.   On one hand,  applications can be charged to consumers on a one-time fee or  pay per usage basis and on a pay per number of users basis to  MNOs, on the other hand.  Additional license fees or  exclusivity contracts could also be negotiated with MNOs.  In  the second scenario, the application integrator could also  charge developers for access to the platform on the basis of  resource consumption, access to particular APIs or on a  monthly fixed fee. 

