Figure 11: Device Manufacturer holds application provisioning scenario
 In addition,  revenues would be split among three actors, potentially  leading to a revenue split not that interesting for developers.   B. CE Device Stream Scenarios  1) Description  In the CE device stream scenarios the device manufacturer  holds the customer relationship for application provisioning  and device marketing.  The device manufacturer thus sells CE  devices directly to the customer and likely also provides  applications directly to the end-user through, for example, an  application portal.  These scenarios are similar to real-life cases  of mobile handset manufacturers that hold platforms to sell  applications to device owners:  9.  The device manufacturer allows third-parties to participate  in the application design and shares revenues with them  (Figure 10). Apple’s new strategy of opening retail shops to  sell Apple devices.  Google tried it before when they launched  the G1 but it was not really a success it was different from the  traditional MNO based retail strategy. Figure 10: Device Manufacturer holds application provisioning without  application design scenario    10. In addition to the device stream, the device manufacturer  assumes the entire application stream ( Figure 11)  Design Provision Hosting Application Usage Network Equipment Development Mobile Access Provision Network Equipment Integration Mobile Access Consumption Development Marketing CE device Usage Consumer Consumer Device Manufacturer Revenue Service MNO    Figure 11: Device Manufacturer holds application provisioning scenario  2) Discussion  The technical cases UC 2 and UC 4 could be deployed taking  these two scenarios into account, since access to hardware- related APIs would be obviously facilitated. However, given  that the MNO is not involved in the application provision, the  possibilities to integrate with mobile phone functionalities  decrease. In these scenarios, the device manufacturer sells  applications directly to consumers, similarly to existing  mobile manufacturers’ platforms, such as Nokia Ovi and  Samsung Apps.  Similarly to previous scenarios, consumers  could be charged on a one-time fee or pay per usage basis.   Previous considerations regarding opening the platform to  application developers also apply to scenario 9.  Although  these two scenarios seem to have little implementation  potential, they are comparable to the platforms established by  mobile phone manufacturers, which are currently more  successful than similar platforms established by mobile  operators.  ZTE and Huawei [9] offer M2M platforms, devices  and handle their retail.    V. CONCLUSION    The key to the success of the M2M business will be a focus on  the value created for the end users, new collaborative business  models and ecosystems where all participants can be  successful. 

