Fig.  1. Registration procedure based on the modified registration method 
 All  rigid  translation  parameters  ( , , y,)  are  used 
to     register     (resample)     the     corresponding     raw 
speckle  images  {I,(x,  y)} (i =        I,  ... ,  N)  in  the  next 
step. 
3) Resampling Raw Speckle Images  Using Cubic B­
Spline  Interpolator: 
The displacement due to disturbances need not 
conform  to  integral  pixels,  so  the  rigid  translation 
parameters       ( ,,, y;)     always       have       subpixel 
precision.  Therefore,  a  resampling  interpolation  is 
needed  to  register  the  raw  speckle  images  {I,(x,  y)} 
(i =       1. .. N). 
In  this  study,  the  cubic  B-spline  interpolator    is 
used to calculate the intensity of non grid position  in 
a two  dimensional  piecewise  polynomial way based 
on  the  cubic  B-spline  function  (5)  which  is  smooth, 
continuous and bounded 
{  -     IdI2(Z - Idl)/Z, 
{33 (d) = 
2-ld13 
6 
' 
0, 
0::;  Idl < 1 
l::;    ldl<Z 
(5) 
Z::; Idl 
where    jdj  is   the   distance   from   the   interpolated 
point. 
Although     the     computational     cost     of     B-spline 
interpolation is  not  very low,  it is used in this   study because   cubic   B-spline   interpolation   utilizes   the 
non-integer parameters which  is preferable  over  the 
nearest  neighbour  interpolation  .  In  addition,  cubic 
B-spline     interpolation     prevents     the     effect     of 
degeneration in linear  interpolation. 
After   resampling,    the    registered    raw   speckle 
images  l;(i  =         1,  ... ,  N)  are  obtained.  The  above 
registration procedures are  summarized  in Fig.l. 
B.  Temporal   LASCA    Based   on   Registered 
Speckle Images 
After    registration     as     described     earlier,     the 
registered  raw  speckle  images  l;(i =        I,  ... ,  N)  are 
then  analyzed  by  conventional  temporal  LASCA  to 
obtain  maps  of  blood  vessels  and  flow.  The  whole 
procedure    as    described    earlier    is    then    called 
registered LASCA (rLASCA) 
III. EXPERIMENT AND DATA ANALYSIS 
A. Animal Preparation 
The  experimental  protocol  used  in  this  study 
has  been  approved  by  the  Animal  Care  and  Use 
Committee  of  Johns  Hopkins  Medical  Institutions. 
The   female   Sprague-Dawley   (SD)   rat   ( -        325   g) 
was anesthetized with intraperitoneal (IP) injection 
of  a mixture of  90 mg/kg of ketamine and  10 mg/kg 
of     xylazine.     The     rat     was     constrained     in     a 
stereotaxic   frame  (model   975,   Kopf   Instruments, 
Tujunga,  CA).  A  midline  incision  was  made  over 
the   scalp   and   the   tissues   over   the   bones   were 
cleaned  with  a  blade.  A  6 x6  mm2  cranial  window 
overlying  the  right  somato  sensory  cortex  (centered 
at   4.5   mm   lateral   and   2.5   mm   posterior   to   the 
bregma)  was  thinned  with  a  high  speed  dental  drill 
(Fine     Science     Tools,     Inc.,     North     Vancouver, 
Canada)     with     1.4     mm     steel     burr     until     half 
transparent.  Saline  was  used  to  cool  down  the  scalp 
during     the     surgery.     Rectal     temperature     was 
maintained   at   37    "C   throughout   the   experiment 
using  a  Gaymar  Heat  Therapy  System  (model  TP-
500  TlPump,  Gaymar  Industries,  Inc.,  New  York, 
NY). 