Figure 3: The diagram for extracting the proposed new front end based on RMVDR spectrum
 Compute its (N-I) length two sided  autocorrelation sequence, has a maximum at  zeroth lag in the center,  3.  Pad one zero at the end to make a N-Iength desired  window.   In other words, the RAS of clean speech can be calculated  by applying the high-pass filter in (12) to the autocorrelation  of noisy speech in the frame range speci fied by (2Q + 1).   According to (11), providing the additive noise is stationary,  then RAS of noisy speech will be same to RAS of clean  speech, and therefore the effect of noise is removed.   Though, non-stationary additive noise is often used in ASR  systems.  Thus, this approach cannot eliminate the complete  distortions and only suppresses the slowly varying noise or  stationary noise and DC. Hence to decrease the noise  residuals that remain after applying RAS filter. we proposed  finding the spectrum of MVDR of this filtered  autocorrelation sequence.  Furthermore, to restrain the noise  effects and then find additional robust features while in low  SNRs also, we proposed using a robust MVDR strategy  refer in [11].  Hence, we extract the proposed spectrum of  MVDR comparative PMSR features from the power  spectrum of subband MVDR of filtered SAS. The proposed  PMSR features of extracting are shown in Figure 3(a).  Figure 3(b) illustrates the proposed procedure for extracting  RPMSR features.  To compute RPMSR coefficients, we first  pass the SAS during a RAS filter in (12).  Subsequently we  find the proposed features from the spectrum of RPMVDR  of this filtered autocorrelation sequence.   The spectrum of RPMVDR is computed similar to the  strategy explained in Section 2.  Though, considering to our  experiments shown in Section 4, the signal subband SNRs 0  passed during a RAS filter are improved compared with no  filter to the autocorrelation sequence.  This occurs due to  suppression of noise effects by processing the signal with  RAS approach.  This causes the subband SNRs to be  computed additional reliably. 

