Figure 1: Diagram for extracting RPMCC features [11]. The subband weighting is applied according to (6) and (7).
  With this problem, we proposed a robust distortion less  constraint in [11] by modifying this constraint like that the  response of the filter at the frequency of refer has a gain that  is driven by the SNR at that frequency, alternatively of a  unity gain.  By this process will be the same as weighting the  value of power spectrum at the frequency of refer based on  the ratio of the signal energy to the noise energy of at that  frequency which make the spectrum of MVDR robust  towards noise.  Hence, the robust spectrum of MVDR for all  frequencies will be computed by [11]  Where  Where S(Wl) and N(wl ) are the clean signal and noise at the  frequency of interest, wI, respectively.  Hence, we assign  larger weights to the input signal components at the  frequencies slight affected by noise, while the others obtain  smaller weights.  In [11], employing the experimental  findings of psychoacoustics [20, 21], we proposed using the  following weighting function with values between zero and  one:  Where SNRi is computed from the ratio of the of noisy  signal energy to noise in the ith mel frequency subband and  Yi, the gain that regulates the weighting function steepness.   So, this weighting function has been recommended because  using the raw subband SNR as the weighting factors did not  ahead to adequate recognition efficiencies in low SNRs as  per experimental results.  The optimum function eq.(7), that  prepared the difference between two sigmoidal functions,  was proposed for Yi in [11] based on recognition  experiments.   In figure 1, shows the flow diagram for extracting the  proposed RPMCC (robust perceptual MVDR based cepstral  coefficients) according to the explained procedure.  RPMCC  features are extracted from the warped power spectrum by  incorporating the PLP structure as in [11].  This gives better  recognition results because exploiting the perceptual  information always improves the speech recognition.  The  power law of hearing blocks and equal loudness curve are  according to [3].  We calculate the warped power spectrum  by applying the conventional triangular Mel-based filter  bank to the FFT based periodogram.  Subsequently the  warped power spectrum of MVDR is computed from the  Mel warped spectrum after employing weighting to  subbands.  Followed by, the cepstral features are calculated  by employing IFFT to the Mel scale MVDR log spectrum. 

