Figure 2. Position ofNRP andODGM/GN in the protocol stack
 In our case, this means that the signaling traffic should be kept as minimal as possible when there is no traffic flow in the network.  No clusters are needed during these periods because hierarchical routing will not be used when there are no packets to be routed anyway.  In this case, there will only be no traffic if a reactive routing protocol, such as AODV, is used.  Also note that the routing hierarchy is more beneficial with multiple concurrent end-to-end connections in the network . The problem ofreactive clustering can be split in two parts.  First, it has to be detected when there is the need for clustering, i.e. when traffic flows.  Then, which nodes participate in traffic flows, clusters have to be established and maintained.  These two parts can be regarded as two completely different protocols with strictly defined interfaces (Figure 2). In particular, the protocols described afterwards are the Neighborhood Recognition Protocol (NRP) and the clustering protocol itself. [P neighbourhood t statuis updates PTheigbbourhood od Clustering Reco ni tion ProtoGool (TRP) C: o cont oI mes famnerefeption r~~~~~~~~~c~C Figure 2. Position ofNRP andODGM/GN in the protocol stack 3.  Proposed Approach Using NRP and node monitoring, it could be known which node is suitable as CH. However, as the neighborhood recognition only works in one direction, the detected neighbors have to be informed of their detection.  Informing the neighbor also helps detecting unidirectional physical links.  The notification was implemented in two ways: First, if the monitoring node has to send an IP packet to the detected neighbor anyway, a special IP option is placed in the packet header.  Second, the detection of neighbors is announced by broadcasting special "NEIGHBOUR-INFORM"-packets.  As it is very likely that many neighbors are detected in rapid succession, the MAC addresses are held in a queue which is flushed after a (short) predefined time interval.  Such a situation is likely to occur when a reactive routing protocol is used. 

