Figure 1. Left: The ad-hoc query routing tree; Right: The optimized workload-based query routing tree constructed using the DWQRT algorithm
 Keywords-Querying Routing Tree, Workload-based, Latnecy  optimization, Wireless Sensor Networks  I. INTRODUCTION  Large-scale deployments of WSN have already emerged in  environmental and habitant monitoring [8, 7], structural  monitoring [3] and urban monitoring [6].  A decisive variable  for prolonging the longevity of a WSN is to minimize the  utilization of the wireless communication medium.  It is well  established that communicating over the radio in a WSN is the  most energy demanding factor among all other functions, such  as storage and processing [10, 4, 5, 11, 9].  The energy  consumption for transmitting 1 bit of data using the MICA  mote [1] is approximately equivalent to processing 1000 CPU  instructions [5].   In order to process continuous queries in Wireless Sensor  Networks (WSNs), predominant data acquisition frameworks  typically organize sensors in a Query Routing Tree that  provides each sensor with a path over which query results can  be transmitted to the querying node.  However, current methods  of constructing a query tree are in ad-hoc manner, there is no  guarantee that a given query workload will be distributed  equally among all sensor nodes.  That leads to data collision  and energy waste.   To facilitate our description, Figure 1 illustrates the initial  ad-hoc query routing tree created on top of a 10-node sensor  network with the First-Heard-From (FHF) approach.  Assume  that the weight on each edge of T represents the workload (e.g.,  the number of transmitted tuples) that incurs when a child node  communicates its partial results to its designated parent node.   In the example, node s2 is inflicted with a high workload (i.e.,  4 child nodes) while other nodes at the same level (i.e., s3 and  s4), only have one child nodes, respectively.  Notice that both  s8 and s9 are within communication range from s3 and s4 (i.e.,  the dotted circle), thus these nodes could have chosen the latter  one as their parent.  Unfortunately, the FHF approach is not  able to take these into account as it conducts the child-to-parent  assignment in a network-agnostic manner.   Therefore, unbalanced workload topologies pose some  important energy challenges. (1) Decreased network lifetime  and coverage. (2) Increased data transmission collisions.      Figure 1. Left: The ad-hoc query routing tree; Right: The optimized  workload-based query routing tree constructed using the DWQRT algorithm  In addition, if the path of query routing is too long, it  seriously suffers from the increased data delivery delay. 

