Figure 3.  Block Diagram of a general PID-based feedback control sys-tem.
 The clock frequency of both designs is 50 MHz.      TABLE IV  FPGA Implementation Results of PID controller    PID Con- troller  complexity Through-  put  latency power  DA-Based 3 LUTs, 3  ACCs, 4  delay  blocks, 2  adders  m+1  clock  cycles  m+1  clock  cycles  9. 29mW  Multiplier- Based  5 MULs, 4  delay  blocks, 5  adders  1 clock  cycle  1 clock  cycle  15mW    It is seen from Table IV that the DA design uses about 13%  of the logic resources required by the design using multip- liers.  On the other hand, the power consumption of DA- based design is reduced by 40%.  Due to the serial nature of  the DA method, the DA PID controller needs 14 clock  cycles, while the design using multipliers needs 1 clock  cycle.  Since in the control system considered, the 14 cycles  of 50 MHz clock are fast enough, the tradeoff of speed to  hardware resource and power saving is useful for the PID  controller design.  A design which is efficient in terms of  power consumption and chip area, means that the FPGA  chip can be used to accommodate more controllers with  adequate speed and low power consumption, resulting in a  cost reduction of the controller hardware.      4 APPLICA TION TO TEMPERATURE CONTROL  SYSTEM   The block diagram of a general purpose PID based feed- back system is shown in Figure 3, where uc is the command  signal, y is the feedback signal, e is the error signal, and u is  the control input.  Figure 4 shows the block diagram of  FPGA-based temperature control system.  The system con- sists of following components: 1) a tube with a fan, a light  bulb, and a thermistor; 2) an I/O panel that includes a Digi- lent DIO2 board, push-button keys with an LCD display; 3)  an ADC chip; 4) FPGA development board consisting a Xi- linx Spartan-2E FPGA.  The thermistor is used for temperature measurement inside  the tube, output of thermistor i.e. voltage across thermistor,  is used to calculate the temperature that is sampled by the  ADC to be used in the control law.  Two PWM generators  are implemented to control the dc motor and the lamp.  The  motor and the lamp are turned either ON or OFF depend- ing on the PID controller output u.  If u is positive, the op- posite will be true.  In our implementation, u is a 34-bit  fixed-point two’s complement number. 

