Fig. 1. Classification of a microfluidic cell culture platform.
   In this paper, a variety of methods for fabricating  microfluidic cell culture devices are introduced, and the  developed microfluidic systems are described according to  their cell type and target analytes.  Furthermore, a suggestion  concerning in vivo-like microenvironment construction in a  microfluidic cell culture system is addressed.   II. MICROTECHNOLOGIES IN BIOLOGICAL  APPLICATION   Microfluidics refers to the devices, systems, and methods  for the manipulation of fluid flows with characteristic length  scales in the micrometer range.  Microfluidic devices are  especially suitable for biological applications, particularly on  the cellular level, because the scale of channels corresponds  with that of cells and the scale of the devices allows  important factors to accumulate locally, forming a stable  microenvironment for cell cultures.  Compared with  traditional culture tools, microfluidic platforms provide much  greater control over the cell microenvironment and a rapid  optimization of media composition using relatively small  numbers of cells.  Given that a group of cells can more easily  maintain a local microenvironment within a microchannel  than in a macroscale culture flasks, cells in microchannels  grow significantly slower than they would in a traditional  culture flask[3].  Microtechnologies including  microfabrication and microfluidics continuously provide  practicable opportunities in cell biology with the  development of biocompatible materials and other  supplement tools for cell cultures and cellular analysis with  high-throughput screening (HTS).    In this paper, the microfluidic cell culture platform is  described according to categorized cell culture methods  (Figure 1). In addition, major results about cell culture  platform are presented. Fig. 1. Classification of a microfluidic cell culture platform.   2-dimensional cell culture.  Mammalian cell culture has  played a fundamental role in the development of  biotechnology, including drug screening procedures and the  large scale production of proteins.  Most in vitro experiments  with adherent human cells are performed using a two- dimensional platform in which cells are plated onto a  surface-treated plastic plate to stimulate cell binding.  A two- dimensional culture method makes it easy to control a single  well-defined cell type, and simplifies the manipulation of  large quantities of cells, the direct detection of the cellular  behavior using fluorescence detection method, as well as the  repeated acquiring of this after cellular analysis[5].  For this  reason, most microfluidic cell culture systems adapt a two- dimensional culture method.    There are several examples of two-dimensional culture  platform that use the cell patterning, laminar flow, and  complex structure of PDMS. Patterning techniques based on  photo- and soft-lithography have been widely used to modify  surface properties for a variety of applications, such as  separating cells, positioning cells in confined region, and  detecting cellular responses. 

