Figure 1: General Model for Viterbi Algorithm
Notice of Violation of IEEE Publication Principles    "Viterbi Algorithm in Continuous-Phase Frequency Shift Keying"  by Hailun Tan   in the Proceedings of the International Conference on Digital Communications, 2006 (ICDT'06),  August 2006    After careful and considered review of the content and authorship of this paper by a duly  constituted expert committee, this paper has been found to be in violation of IEEE's Publication  Principles.     This paper is a revised version of the following paper.   The lead author, Liang Miao, was not  informed of the revisions.    "Application of Viterbi Algorithm in Binary Continuous Phase FSK"  by  Liang Miao, Hailun Tan   in a Research Report presented at Australia National University, October 2003    Viterbi Algorithm in Continuous-Phase Frequency Shift Keying  Hailun Tan  Australian National University, Faculty of Engineering & Information Technology  u2532164@anu.edu.au    Abstract   In this paper, the theory of Viterbi Algorithm is  introduced based on convolutional coding.  The  application of Viterbi Algorithm in the  Continuous-Phase Frequency Shift Keying (CPFSK) is  presented.  Analysis for the performance is made and  compared with the conventional coherent estimator  and the complexity of the implementation of the Viterbi  decoder in hardware device is analyzed.  At last the  relevant conclusion is given.   Index Terms – Viterbi Algorithm, Convolutional  Coding, Binary Continuous Phase FSK, Markov  Process, MAP, MLSE, BER    1.  Introduction  1.1 Background Introduction  Viterbi algorithm (VA) can be viewed as a solution  of estimation for a finite sequence from Markov  process through memoryless noise channel as  illustrated in Figure 1:    Figure 1: General Model for Viterbi Algorithm  Sequence detection with Viterbi decoding has been  widely considered for the detection of signals with  memory[1].  It was originally invented to decode  convolutional codes[2].  So, the introduction of the  Viterbi algorithm will mainly be based on the  decoding process for the convolution coding.   There exist several statistical tools in VA  estimation such as the Maximum A posteriori  Probability (MAP)[3] and Maximum Likelihood  Sequence Estimation (MLSE) [1, 4-7].    1.2  MAP and MLSE  MAP and MLSE can be both viewed as a  derivation from the BAYES Estimation[8, 9].    In  BAYES criterion, two notations are made:   • the priori probabilities (denoted as P (H 0 ) and P  (H 1 ))   • The cost to each possible decision (denoted as C ij ),  i, j = 0, 1, as the cost associated with the decision  D i  given that the true hypothesis is H j .  Hence, the  decision rule resulting from the BAYES criterion  is:  ) ( ) ( ) / ( ) / ( 11 01 1 00 10 0 0 / 1 1 / 0 1 0 C C P C C P H Y f H Y f H H H Y H Y − − < >   In MAP , let the costs   Cii = 0, i = 0, 1  Cij = 1, i ≠ j and i, j = 0, 1  Hence, minimizing the risk is equivalent to  minimizing the probability of error. 

