Fig. 4. IDEF0 representation of STEP-compliant process control framework
 Parts quality is also dependent on the  surface roughness which is measured using  dynamometers.  Machined surface condition is  also modelled in the process capability model of  the manufacturing model.  The dynamometer  provides the spindle forces which becomes the  basis for calculating the roughness.  The  knowledge-based process analyser evaluates the  different surface roughness values for various  process parameters and provides the appropriate  process parameters for better surface roughness  and minimum tool wear.  This is then fed back to  the manufacturing and updated product  information in the framework.   5.5. Knowledge-based process analyser  The knowledge-based process analyser  investigates the pattern of process variations  from the obtained data set that relates to the  process deviations for the particular component  for a set of experiments.  This knowledge-based  analyser uses knowledge-based tools to obtain a  575 575certain pattern of process variation for the part  that can be fed back for the corrective measures.   An IDEF0 representation of information transfer  within the framework is illustrated in Fig. 4.    6.  Functional framework for the  knowledge-based process analyser  The role of the knowledge in the CNC  manufacturing process control is to explore the  feedback of the process parameters from the  CNC to the CAM system.  The authors have  classified the knowledge requirements into four  categories i.e. knowledge acquisition, updating  knowledge base, knowledge representation and  knowledge reproduction and utilisation.  The  functionalities of these elements of the  knowledge-based process control system are  briefly presented as follows:  I. Knowledge acquisition: To build a  knowledge base on the basis of the results  obtained from a set of experiments for various  process parameters.  The knowledge base is built  by analysing the STEP-NC file related to  manufacturing information and process  parameters for the part.   II. Updating knowledge base: Mobile  agents are used to support the continuous update  of the database, which helps in keeping a record  of the previous parameters and subsequently  analysing it.   III. Knowledge representation: This is used  to represent the knowledge pertaining to features  and different process control parameters. 

