Fig. 3. STEP-NC compliant process control framework.
 A fish bone diagram for  process control in CNC manufacturing is shown  in Fig. 2 and represents the authors view of  classifying process control into three types.  The  first type of process control feedback  compensates for the inherent inaccuracies in the  machine tool.  Tool offsets and compensation for  dimensional inaccuracy are compensated as the  second type of feedback.  The third type is  related with the feedback of process parameters  for better surface roughness.   5. STEP-NC compliant process  control framework  STEP-NC is a data model which represents  an intelligent CNC control and is formally  known as the standard ISO 14649.  Contrary to  the current NC programming standard (ISO  6983) , ISO 14649 is not a method for part  programming and does not normally describe the  tool movements for a CNC machine.  Instead,  ISO 14649 provides a hierarchical data model  for CNCs with a detailed and structured data  interface that incorporates feature-based  programming where there is a range of  information such as the feature to be machined,  tool types used, the operations to perform and  the work plan.  A view of this STEP-NC  compliant process control framework is  presented in Fig. 3 illustrating its major  functional elements.   Though it is possible to closely define the  machine tool trajectory using STEP-NC, the aim  of the standard is to allow these decisions to be  made by a new breed of intelligent controller.  It  is the aim that STEP-NC part programmes may  be written once and used on many different types  of machine tool controller providing the machine  has the required process capabilities.  One critical  issue is that the toolpath and inspection probe   573 573path movements information is optional  and should ideally be generated   at the machine by the CNC controller.  In  addition, the standard also includes the data  model for feedback of inspection results within  the updated STEPNC file for the manufactured  part, which could then be analysed.   Geometric information is defined by  features with machining and inspection  operations known as working steps performed  on one or more features.  These working steps  provide the basis of a work plan to manufacture  the component. 

