Fig. 1. Current process control loop in the CNC manufacturing.
 In  this regard, recent research has been  concentrated on investigating the capabilities of  on-machine measurement conforming to the  machine tool.   Another important aspect in machining  automation that affects the quality of the parts is  preventive maintenance techniques.  In recent  years, a relationship has been formulated  between the equipment maintenance and product  quality using the quality control techniques.   Knowledge-based techniques have been applied  in various domains of the manufacturing such as  prediction and optimisation of machining  parameters.  These techniques play an important  role in manufacturing data analysis.   3. State-of-the-art in CNC  manufacturing  The present CNC manufacturing process  control loop has remained unchanged for more  than 20 years. Today’s PC-CNC controllers are  still only utilised for low level tool path NC code  execution, with no access to highlevel  information on the major activities of machine  set-up,tooling set-up/management, inspection  planning or results feedback.  This is depicted in  Fig. 1, which illustrates the feedback in a system  that cannot modify the process parameters in  CAPP/CAM and manufacturing resources to  manufacture the parts consistently.  Product  models are widely used for representing design  and manufacture of the components.  Even where  product models can use features to represent the  part design, partmanufacturing data are  generated by CAM systems, specific to an  individual machine tool, with vendor-specific  interpretation of toolpath commands as well as  onmachine inspection instructions.  The present  system therefore, lacks a standardised form of  feedback that can be analysed to provide the  corrective measures so that process variations  can be evaluated and subsequently compensated.   In order to provide the standardised  Fig. 2. Process control elements in CNC manufacturing.   572 572structured feedback for process control, the  following points need to be considered:  I. The generic format of the interpreted  results data and also the required semantics that  can be analysed and fed back into the system  need to be defined.   II. The different standards conforming to  the inspection of a component, fixturing for the  part on the machine tool and tooling  requirements need to be investigated so that  inspection can be achieved in a strategic and  standardised manner. 

