Fig 1. Computing hierarchy of ECC arithmetic
 However, the computing performance is greatly affected by the element representation basis, two of which are widely used in binary finite field [10] are polynomial basis and normal basis.  The mathematic foundation of ECC is based on Weierstrass equation.  Nowadays the research work on the equation is focused on affine and projective coordinates form.  The equation in affine coordinates is y2+xy = x3+ax2+b (b?O) (1) Several projective coordinate systems for elliptic curve equation have been proposed in order to avoid the time­ consuming inversion operation [7].  Projective coordinate system proposed by Lopez and Dahab is suitable for hardware implementation, and it is called LoD projective coordinates in this paper.  Scalar multiplication is the foundation of ECC, and it directly contributes to discrete logarithm problem and several cryptographic schemes.  Fig 1. Computing hierarchy of ECC arithmetic The hierarchy of arithmetic for elliptic curve scalar multiplication is depicted in  Figure 1, where FF-Mult represents finite field multiplication, FF-Add represents finite field adding, FF-Square represents finite field squaring, EC-Add represents addition on elliptic curve, and so on [11]. ICAC 2009III. ARITHMETIC OVER BINARY FINITE FIELD The most important arithmetic over binary finite field is modular multiplication; hence it is necessary to design an efficient multiplier, which depends on the given finite field.  Considering resource consumption, both shifted canonical basis and type II optimal normal basis are utilized in our design to achieve the efficient multiplier.  Let E be an elliptic curve over finite field defined by equation (1) where a and b are in finite field and b is not equal to O. Let P = (x; y) be a point on elliptic curve E, and let k is greater than 0 be an integer.  We may write k as a binary expansion K = (K s-lKs- 2 .... K l Ko)2 = Ks_ 1 2 s - l + k s_22 s- 2 + ..... Kls+ko, (2) where k, = 0,1 with k S - l = 1 We can compute kP using the following L'opez-Dahab algorithm [8].  Two main advantages of the L'opez- Dahab algorithm are: 1) A number of inversions are avoided by using projective coordinate representation and 2) The same operations are performed in every iteration of the main loop. 

