Fig.1 Authentication Process in a TOC System
 In case of authentication to smartcards, intuition  imposes the match to be performed by the smartcard but  this is not always possible because of the complexity of  biometric information, such as fingerprints or iris scans,  and because of the yet limited computational resources  offered by currently available smartcards.  In general,  three strategies of biometric authentication can be  identified [7].  They are Template on Card (TOC), Match  on Card (MOC), and System on Card (SOC).  In this phase  we concentrated on Template on Card (TOC).   Biometric Technology: A biometric system provides  automatic recognition of an individual based on some sort  of unique feature or characteristic possessed by the  individual. Fig.2 Front-on view of the human eye  The iris is the colored portion of the eye that  surrounds the pupil is a thin circular diaphragm, which  lies between the cornea and the lens of the human eye  shown in  fig 2. Average diameter of the iris is 12 mm, and  the pupil size can vary from 10% to 80% of the iris  diameter [8]. The biometric sample is then transformed  using some sort of mathematical function into a biometric  template. It will provide a normalized, efficient and  representation of the feature, which can then be  objectively compared with other templates in order to  determine identity.      II. IRIS RECOGNITION SYSTEM  The iris is the colored portion of the eye that  surrounds the pupil as shown in figure 1. An iris  recognition system is composed of many stages as firstly,  an image of the person's eye is captured and preprocessed.   Secondly, the image is localized to determine the iris  boundaries.  Thirdly, the iris boundary coordinates are  converted to the stretched polar coordinates to normalize  the scale and illumination of the iris in the image.   Fourthly, features representing the iris patterns are  extracted based on the analysis.  Then the code is  generated.  After that, the person is identified by  comparing his/her code with an iris database.  These  processes are named as Image acquisition, Segmentation,  Normalization, Feature extraction, Code generation as  shown in fig 3.    Fig.3 Iris Recognition System    Segmentation    The first stage of iris recognition is to isolate the  actual iris region in a digital eye image. 

