Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of the voice-input voice-output communication aissists
 A preliminary comprehensive  person needs research regarded as the actual sights associated  with each possible VOICE INPUT VOICE OUTPUT  COMMUNICATION ASSISTS customers as well as  associated with talk as well as  the meaning full vocabulary  therapists/pathologists that supply voice-output conversation  helps.  An array of person requirements had been elicited and  also the actual speak of VOICE INPUT VOICE-OUTPUT  COMMUNICATION ASSISTS had been put in place to  satisfy these types of needs exactly where achievable.  The  actual improvement procedure had been iterative and also the  execution had been progressively processed through screening  advancements along with several 4 possible VOICE INPUT  VOICE OUTPUT COMMUNICATION ASSISTS customers.   These types of 4 customers had been individuals with  reasonable or even serious dysarthria, along with one person  getting extra spoken dyspraxia.  The voice entered in the  system that will recognize each every word through the speech  recognizer to that module.  Also recognizing is work  throughout the system.  Where the user want to speak and  translate the message to end user.   Fig. 1 exhibits the schematic from the program and it is  main components.  The consumer talk’s right into a mike and  also the talk is actually prepared as well as identified by the  talk recognizer.  The actual recognized phrases tend to be  handed to some information creating component.  Dependent  about this enter, the actual information creating component  may revise the actual display, possibly provide sound  suggestions towards the person, as well as determine the  number associated with feasible long term advices.  This  method proceeds within an iterative style since the person  develops their own information.  Once the information is  actually total it's handed towards the talk synthesizer,  generating intelligible voiced result using a loudspeaker.  The  machine elements tend to be referred to beneath. 

