Figure 2. The HFA-HOC scheme for feature vector extraction
 The remainder of this paper is structured as follows.  We  describe the proposed seizure diagnosis algorithm including  of feature extraction based on HAF-HOC scheme and  classification based on QDA-MD in section II. The  performance of algorithm is evaluated on Children's Hospital  Boston (CHB) dataset in section III. Some conclusion is  discussed in section IV. II. THE PROPOSED SEIZURE DIAGNOSIS ALGORITHM The overall structure of the proposed seizure diagnosis  algorithm is shown in Fig. 1. In this algorithm, Q-second  epochs from seizure and non-seizure EEG signals are  decomposed by HAF-HOC scheme within efficient-feature  vectors.  The HAF applying Genetic Algorithms to the  representation of the seizure and non-seizure EEG signals on  the Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) domain.  The  HOC form the effective feature vector via the oscillatory  pattern of the HAF- outputted EEG signal instead of the  EEG signal itself.  Finally, QDA and MD classifiers are used  to classify the extracted features from seizure and non- seizure EEG epochs.  2011 International Conference on Intelligent Computation and Bio-Medical Instrumentation 978-0-7695-4623-0/11 $26. 00 © 2011 IEEE DOI 10. 1109/ICBMI.2011.71 192Figure 1. structure of the proposed seizure prediction algorithm A. feature extraction using HAF-HOC scheme The structure of HAF-HOC scheme is illustrated in Fig. 2.  In this scheme, the seizure and non- seizure EEG signals is  inputted to the HAF section after the pre-processing stage for  signal segmentation and de-noising.  The goal of HAF [8] is  to isolate the EEG characteristics, facilitating the task of the  feature vector extraction.  To achieve this, the HAF combines  the Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) and a simple  Genetic Algorithm (GA) optimization concept to construct a  filtering process to determinate the characteristics of the  filtered signal.  The EMD is qualified by Flaudrin [9] as a  adaptive filter bank due to it's ability to decompose a signal  into modes and residuals, which are explained as spectral  representation.  To improve the capability of the EMD  algorithm, a GA-based approach is employed to select the  optimum modes that correspond to a specific feature of a  signal.  The used GA is based on the realization strategy in  [10], including of initialization, pair selection, cross-over,  mutation, elitist strategy and termination.  So the EEG signal  is decomposed through an iterative sifting process [11] into a  series of Intrinsic Mode Functions (IMFs) that correspond to  different oscillatory modes of the EEG signal. 

