Figure 3. Cross layer functionalities for spectrum sensing.their spectrum sensing measurements [19].
  III. Cyclostationary Feature Detection: Since modulated signals are coupled with sine wave carriers, pulse trains, repeating spreading, hopping, a receiver can exploit it for: parameter estimation such as carrier phase, pulse timing, or direction of arrival.  The basic formula behind this technique is Spectral Cor- relation Function (SCF) which can be used for detection of a random signal with detection fea- tures.  This is because different types of modulated signals (such as BPSK, QPSK, SQPSK or QAM) have distinct spectral correlation functions.  Further- more, stationary noise and interference exhibit no spectral correlation.  Spectrum Sensing is best addressed as a cross-layer design. Figure 2. Cooperation in cognitive radio. Physical Layer MAC Layer RF Tech  Energy Detection Feature Detection  Cooperation Amplify-Forward Protocol or Adaptive Protocol   Figure 3. Cross layer functionalities for spectrum sensing.their spectrum sensing measurements [19].  Figure 3 illustrates physical and Media Access Control (MAC) functions that are linked to spectrum sensing.  Until now we have discussed the novel characteristic of cognitive radio and implementation aspects of spectrum sensing which enables real-time measurements of spec- trum information from radio environment.  In the following section we will discuss how channel coding can play an important role in cognitive radio networks and how this coding can be suited into these agile circumstances.  IV. How ECC Can Play an Important Role in  Cognitive Radio Networks There is a vision that generations beyond 3G will be able to achieve seamless, always-best-connected wireless serv- ices.  This means that users of mobile devices will be able to connect to the “best” wireless infrastructure available (cellular, WiFi, WiMAX) anytime and anywhere, where “best” could be perceived as best quality of service, best price, best security, etc.  In other words, xG is the capabil- ity of adjusting operating parameters for the transmission on the fly without any modifications on the hardware com- ponents.  This capability enables the cognitive radio to adapt easily to the dynamic radio environment.  There are several reconfigurable parameters that are being incorpo- rated into the cognitive radio as explained below [20]: ■ Operating frequency: A cognitive radio is capable of changing the operating frequency. 

