Figure 4. A classical block diagram of a digital communication system.
16e [24], have considered LDPC coding schemes as a key component of their system features.  The adop- tion by such standard activities proves the increasing maturity of the LDPC related technology, especially the affordable joint complexity from encoder and decoder implementation.  From sub-optimal lower-complexity decoding algorithms [25] to complete flexible architec- ture design [26], [27], some pragmatic and realistic imple- mentation solutions allow LDPC codes to be more and more attractive as enhancement of current (B3G) or next generation wireless systems (4G) [28].  One of the most interesting potential applications of an xG network is in a military radio environment [29]. xG networks can enable the military radios to choose arbitrary, intermediate fre- quency (IF) bandwidth, modulation schemes, and coding schemes, adapting to the variable radio environment of the battlefield.  In this article more specifically we focus on the coding scheme particularly LDPC. Our main objec- tive is how to make channel coding more adaptive and reconfigurable to the variable radio.  Therefore, in the fol- lowing section we investigate design complexity, per- formance analysis and power consumption of channel coding which are important to achieve less BER as well as less SNR, meaning less transmitter and receiver power in order to provide a seamless transmission.  V. Low Density Parity Check Code Error correcting code (ECC) enables communication sys- tems to have reliable transmission over noisy channels.  Figure 4 depicts a classical block diagram of a digital com- munication system.  Several types of codes exist, each of which is suitable for some special applications.  The encoding/decoding algorithm for each code should be modified to fit into the space of practical hardware imple- mentation.  Moreover, each ECC has several algorithms and there exists a large design space with trade-offs among performance, complexity and power consump- tion.  In this article we address trade-offs for a particular type of error correcting codes, namely, Low Density Parity Check Code (LDPC).  These codes have proved to have very good performance over noisy channels [30].  LDPC codes were invented by R. G. Gallager in 1962 [31]. 

