Figure 1. Logical diagram contrasting traditional radio and cognitive radio.noted that various usersmay have different sensitiv-ities and sensing timeswhich is troublesome.
 The term, cognitive radio, can be formally defined as follows: “A Cognitive Radio is a radio that can change its trans- mitter parameters based on interaction with the environ- ment in which it operates’’ [10].   From this definition, two main characteristics of the cognitive radio are defined as follows [11], [12]: ■ Cognitive capability: Cognitive capability refers to the ability of the radio technology to capture or sense the information from its radio environment.  This capabili- ty cannot simply be realized by monitoring the power in some frequency band of interest but more sophisti- cated techniques are required in order to capture the temporal and spatial variations in the radio environ- ment and to avoid interference with other users.  Through this capability, the portions of the spectrum that are unused at a specific time or location can be identified.  Consequently, the best spectrum and appropriate operating parameters can be selected. ■ Reconfigurability: The cognitive capability provides spectrum awareness whereas reconfigurability enables the radio to be dynamically programmed according to the radio environment.  More specifically , cognitive radios can be programmed to transmit and receive over a broad range of frequencies and to use different transmission access technologies supported by their hardware [13].  In other words, a Cognitive Radio is a radio that is able to sense the spectral environment over a wide  frequency band and exploits this information to opportunistically provide wireless links that best meet the user communication requirements.  Figure 1 graphically contrasts traditional radio with software radio and cognitive radio.   III. Characteristics of Cognitive Radio  for Next Generation Networks Today’s wireless networks are characterized by a fixed spectrum assignment policy.  However, a large portion of the assigned spectrum is used sporadically and geograph- ical variations in the utilization of assigned spectrum ranges from 15% to 85% with a high variance in time.  The limited available spectrum and the inefficiency in the spec- trum usage necessitate a new communication paradigm to exploit the existing wireless spectrum opportunistically.  25 THIRD QUARTER 2007 IEEE CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS MAGAZINE Digital Object Identifier 10. 1109/MCAS.2007.904180This new networking paradigm is referred to as NeXt Generation (xG) Networks as well as Dynamic Spectrum Access (DSA) and Cognitive Radio Networks [14]–[16].  Cognitive radio techniques provide the capability to use or share the spectrum in an opportunistic manner. 

