Fig. 1. Charge-pump PLL block diagram
 Therefore,  PLL loop can filter high frequency jitter on the  reference clock and on the contrary, DLL does not  filter out any noise on reference clock.  Moreover  phase transfer function of a DLL reveals high- frequency jitter peaking, making it unsuitable for  application where there is a significant amount of  high-frequency jitter associated with the input  reference clock.      Considering all these pros and cons of PLL and  DLL, this paper presents a mixed PLL-DLL  architecture and its’ jitter analysis.  Section II  provides a general background on PLL and DLL.  Section III gives a detail z-domain model of mixed  PLL-DLL architecture and its’ simulation result.   Section IV concludes with a summary.    II. BACKGROUND   A. PLL   Commonly used PLLs are 2 nd  order feedback system  that generates a clock signal whose output phase is  aligned with respect to the phase of an input  reference clock.  Since phase is the integration of  frequency, once the phases are aligned, both phase  and frequency are “locked”.  Block diagram of a  commonly-used charge pump based PLL is  presented in figure 1, comprised of a voltage- controlled oscillator(VCO), a phase-frequency  detector (PFD), a charge pump (CP) and a loop filter  (LF).      Fig. 1. Charge-pump PLL block diagram   Since PLL is a sampled system, a continuous-time  approximation is only valid up to frequencies that  are much lower than the reference clock frequency  and if the loop bandwidth is much lower than the  sampling frequency [11].  Where as z-domain model  is more accurate and it also reveals the sampled  nature of PLL system.  Figure 2 represents z-domain  model of the above PLL.     750 5th International Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering ICECE 2008, 20-22 December 2008, Dhaka, Bangladesh 978-1-4244-2015-5/08/$25. 00 (c)2008 IEEE  Fig. 2. Z-domain model for PLL.   The CP and LF combined transfer function is  replaced by its equivalent discrete-time model  LF(z), and Kvco is the VCO gain.  For a given input  reference clock period Tref, and charge-pump  current ICP, combined transfer function LF(z)  becomes   ) 1 ( 2 ) ( ) ( − − = z z R T I z LF ref CP π β   (1)  Where, ) exp( RC T ref − = β   Open-loop transfer function is then  ) 1 ( ) ( ) ( − = z K z LF z LG vco    (2)  Input phase transfer function (PTF)   ] ) ( 1 [ ) ( ) ( 1 ) ( ) ( vco vco ref out K z LF z K z LF z LG z LG z − − = + = φ φ   (3)  Output phase transfer function   ] ) ( 1 [ 1 ) ( 1 1 ) ( vco out out K z LF z z z LG z N − − − = + = φ  (4)  From Fig. 2, it is clear that input phase transfer  function and input noise transfer function (NTF) is  the same.  Z-domain PLL model simulation result  shows the following input and output noise transfer  function. 

