Fig. 2. Z-domain model for PLL.
 Section II  provides a general background on PLL and DLL.  Section III gives a detail z-domain model of mixed  PLL-DLL architecture and its’ simulation result.   Section IV concludes with a summary.    II. BACKGROUND   A. PLL   Commonly used PLLs are 2 nd  order feedback system  that generates a clock signal whose output phase is  aligned with respect to the phase of an input  reference clock.  Since phase is the integration of  frequency, once the phases are aligned, both phase  and frequency are “locked”.  Block diagram of a  commonly-used charge pump based PLL is  presented in figure 1, comprised of a voltage- controlled oscillator(VCO), a phase-frequency  detector (PFD), a charge pump (CP) and a loop filter  (LF).      Fig. 1. Charge-pump PLL block diagram   Since PLL is a sampled system, a continuous-time  approximation is only valid up to frequencies that  are much lower than the reference clock frequency  and if the loop bandwidth is much lower than the  sampling frequency [11].  Where as z-domain model  is more accurate and it also reveals the sampled  nature of PLL system.  Figure 2 represents z-domain  model of the above PLL.     750 5th International Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering ICECE 2008, 20-22 December 2008, Dhaka, Bangladesh 978-1-4244-2015-5/08/$25. 00 (c)2008 IEEE  Fig. 2. Z-domain model for PLL.   The CP and LF combined transfer function is  replaced by its equivalent discrete-time model  LF(z), and Kvco is the VCO gain.  For a given input  reference clock period Tref, and charge-pump  current ICP, combined transfer function LF(z)  becomes   ) 1 ( 2 ) ( ) ( − − = z z R T I z LF ref CP π β   (1)  Where, ) exp( RC T ref − = β   Open-loop transfer function is then  ) 1 ( ) ( ) ( − = z K z LF z LG vco    (2)  Input phase transfer function (PTF)   ] ) ( 1 [ ) ( ) ( 1 ) ( ) ( vco vco ref out K z LF z K z LF z LG z LG z − − = + = φ φ   (3)  Output phase transfer function   ] ) ( 1 [ 1 ) ( 1 1 ) ( vco out out K z LF z z z LG z N − − − = + = φ  (4)  From Fig. 2, it is clear that input phase transfer  function and input noise transfer function (NTF) is  the same.  Z-domain PLL model simulation result  shows the following input and output noise transfer  function.      Fig. 3. Reference and output noise transfer function  of z-domain PLL model   However z-domain model is only valid up to half of  the reference clock frequency due to the sampled  nature of the system.    B. DLL   A DLL is also a feedback system and it uses a  voltage-controlled delay line (VCDL) instead of  VCO to generate an output clock that is a delayed  version of the input clock.  The delay through the  VCDL is a fixed fraction (often 50% or 100%) of  the input clock period. 

