Fig. 4. Charge-pump based DLL block diagram
 Figure 2 represents z-domain  model of the above PLL.     750 5th International Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering ICECE 2008, 20-22 December 2008, Dhaka, Bangladesh 978-1-4244-2015-5/08/$25. 00 (c)2008 IEEE  Fig. 2. Z-domain model for PLL.   The CP and LF combined transfer function is  replaced by its equivalent discrete-time model  LF(z), and Kvco is the VCO gain.  For a given input  reference clock period Tref, and charge-pump  current ICP, combined transfer function LF(z)  becomes   ) 1 ( 2 ) ( ) ( − − = z z R T I z LF ref CP π β   (1)  Where, ) exp( RC T ref − = β   Open-loop transfer function is then  ) 1 ( ) ( ) ( − = z K z LF z LG vco    (2)  Input phase transfer function (PTF)   ] ) ( 1 [ ) ( ) ( 1 ) ( ) ( vco vco ref out K z LF z K z LF z LG z LG z − − = + = φ φ   (3)  Output phase transfer function   ] ) ( 1 [ 1 ) ( 1 1 ) ( vco out out K z LF z z z LG z N − − − = + = φ  (4)  From Fig. 2, it is clear that input phase transfer  function and input noise transfer function (NTF) is  the same.  Z-domain PLL model simulation result  shows the following input and output noise transfer  function.      Fig. 3. Reference and output noise transfer function  of z-domain PLL model   However z-domain model is only valid up to half of  the reference clock frequency due to the sampled  nature of the system.    B. DLL   A DLL is also a feedback system and it uses a  voltage-controlled delay line (VCDL) instead of  VCO to generate an output clock that is a delayed  version of the input clock.  The delay through the  VCDL is a fixed fraction (often 50% or 100%) of  the input clock period.  While there are several ways  to implement a DLL, figure 4 presents a block  diagram of a commonly-used charge pump based  DLL topology.    Fig. 4. Charge-pump based DLL block diagram   It is possible to analyze the frequency response of  the DLL with a continuous time approximation,  where the sampling operation of PD is ignored.   However, this approximation fails to capture  important phase transfer characteristics that govern  DLL operation.  Given the inherent discrete time  nature of the DLL, a z-domain analysis is more  appropriate [11].    Fig. 5. Z-domain model for charge-pump based  DLL   For DLL, transfer function LF(z) becomes   ) 1 ( ) ( − = z z K z LF cp     (5)  Where  C T I K ref CP cp π 2 =  Based on the above expression for LF, input-to- output phase transfer can then be represented by the  following expression    )] 1 ( [ 1 ) 1 ( ) ( CP VCDL CP VCDL in out K K z z z K K z − − − + = φ φ  (6)  Output noise transfer function   ) 1 ( 1 ) ( CP VCDL out out K K z z z N − − − = φ   (7)  751Plotting the frequency response of equation (6),   figure 6 reveals that the input-to-output phase  transfer function has an all pass characteristics,  which implies that high frequency jitter on the  reference clock passes straight through to the output  without being filtering. Actually it is even worse.   The high frequency jitter on the reference clock is  slightly amplified for frequency higher than   ⎟ ⎟ ⎠ ⎞ ⎜ ⎜ ⎝ ⎛ + CP VCDL ref K K T 1 1 ln 2 1 π , which is the  frequency of the zero in equation (6). 

